all right so we've seen how to make
simple providers and how to consume them
now I want to move on to another Topic
in River pod which is all about
generated code so in River pod version 2
we actually have access to another
package called River pod generator which
can generate provider code for us we
still have to write out a little bit of
code which the generator package uses to
generate our provider for us they're
kind of like instructions but that code
we write becomes much more stream LED
and easier to manage now in the case of
these two simple providers we've already
created the use of generated code might
seem a little bit Overkill and it is but
I wanted to introduce this idea of code
Generation Now with a very simple
example and then later on in the course
we'll generate slightly more complex
providers too so then there are a couple
of packages we need to install to do
this so let's quickly head to the docs
to see those so then the two packages
we're going to be installing are this
one right here River pod annotation and
we need that to add little annotations
to our instruction code if you like to
tell River pod that we want something
generating and then this one right here
riffer pod generator which is a Dev
dependency and this is the thing that
actually generates the code for US based
on the annotations we provide so we're
going to grab both of those so we can
install them in a second but just dead
quickly while I'm on the docks I want to
show you this so the providers we've
created they would look more like this
right here when we use generated code so
these are basically the instructions
that we have to tell the generator
package we want to generate something
this is the river pod annotation that
says hey this thing needs generating and
this is the thing right here function
that is essentially the instructions to
the generator on how to create this
provider so we just use a function and
then return a value so let's try this
out in our project okay then so open up
your terminal and let's clear down here
just so we've got a bit of room and get
rid of that and then I will paste in
this first one flutter Pub ad River pod
annotation to install that one and then
I'm going to grab the second one right
here and then I'm going to paste that in
as well remember this is a Dev
dependency so press enter this is the
riffer Pod generator package all right
cool so now we can start using these So
then whenever we want to generate a
provider we need to first of all use a
little annotation which is at River pod
this tells River pod that we want to use
code generation to generate a provider
now when we want to generate a simple
read only provider like this one we
already have all we have to do is make a
function underneath this annotation
which returns a value so let's try to
recreate the products Provider by using
the generator to make it so we already
have the river pod annotation then we
need to make a function under it that
Returns the states so we Define the
return type of the function first which
is a list of product objects then we
give the function a name which I'm going
to call product and when River pod
generates a provided for us it uses this
name of the function to name the
provider all it does is add the word
provider after the function name so the
provider it generates for this one would
be product provider so this function in
itself takes in a ref object should we
need it much like we had one up there in
the providers when we made them and then
inside the function all we need to do is
return the state value which is just all
products and that my friends is it now
when we run the river pod generator it's
going to see this annotation and
therefore know that the function which
follows it should be used to generate a
provider now before we do anything else
you'll notice a little red squiggly line
under here and that's because we haven't
imported the river pod annotations
package so just do that at the top here
so River pod annotation right here and
when we do that you'll notice this
squiggly line right here and that's
because when we import the river pod
annotation file we no longer need this
one because this thing right here this
includes the ability not only to do this
but also if we want to create providers
it includes that as well so we don't
really need the other one all right so
now let's save this so we'll generate
this in a second but first of all I'm
going to delete the current products
provided we made because we won't need
that anymore and also because the river
pod generator is going to generate a
provider with the same name as this for
us in a moment too so so if I kept this
around and we'd have naming conflicts
and we don't want those and also I just
want to paste in one quick line of code
near the top of the file as well and
that is parts and then a relative path
to another file called products
provider.
g.d and that's the same name as this
current file but with a g at the end of
it to say this is a generated file and
this is the file that River pod will
generate for us to house the generated
provider and we need to add this
statement in this file to say look this
current file that we're in will be a
part of this other generated file all
right so now we want to start generating
stuff this provider right here in
particular so let's open up the terminal
there's one more thing we need to
install and that is this thing called
build Runner so flutter Pub ad then it's
a Dev dependency so use dev then a colon
then build Runner we're going to press
enter to install that and that's so we
can run a command which essentially is
going to watch our files for changes and
then it's going to generate our code on
the fly when we change the files or
basically create new stuff like this and
save the file so once we've done that we
can run another command which is let me
clear this first of all and then we can
run Dart run build Runner which is what
we just installed and then watch so this
is the thing that watches our files it
runs the generator when we create
something new like this let's run this
and see if it works it might take just a
few seconds or even like 30 seconds the
first time you do this all right and
you'll notice now if we scroll up this
error should have gone away because
because this file will now exist and we
can see it here it's a gray icon because
this is a generated file and we have all
of this stuff right here now it looks a
little complicated but don't worry about
that you do not need to modify this and
it's explicit in telling us that right
here do not modify by hand this is all
the generated code for us but
essentially what we have now is a
product provider right here and yeah it
looks more complicated but it's going to
do the same thing for us so if we cross
this off now because this file is a part
of that file when we're importing this
file into I think our home
screen everything's going to work the
same way we don't get an error here
saying we need to import that generated
file because that generated file is a
part of this thing right here so since
we're importing this in here it doesn't
matter so there's no errors everything
should still work the same way only now
we're using that generated provider
instead so let's see if this still works
on the home screen I'm going to do a
hard refresh just to catch any changes
in case it's not already done that but
yeah we can still see all the products
awesome okay so now let's go back to
this file products provider and we're
going to do the same thing for this one
right here so we'll say at River pod
again first of all we do this anytime
you want to generate something this is
going to return the same kind of thing a
list of products so copy that paste it
here I'm going to call it reduced
products and and then this is a function
which takes in the ref arguments inside
here we just need to return something
and that's something is this thing right
here so copy that paste it here and then
we can get rid of this if we save this
it's going to generate this one for us
as well and we should see that inside
this file if we scroll down we can now
see this one reduced products provider
as well again we don't have to change
anything inside the cart screen
everything should still work the same
way we'll do a hard refresh just to
catch any changes and then go to the
cart to make sure it's still working
which it is awesome so there we go my
friends that is how we can generate our
providers instead of manually creating
them and again for these very simple
read only providers this was a bit of
Overkill but later on as your providers
get a bit more complex this is going to
be much easier
