[Music]
n
[Music]
welcome back to the free C Camp podcast
I'm Quincy Larson teacher and founder of
freecodecamp.org each week we're
bringing you Insight from developers
Founders and ambitious people getting
into Tech this week we're joined by none
other than Ben Awad who is a developer
he is a prolific Creator on both YouTube
and Tik Tok and very importantly he is
working on on a new game which already
has like you know more than 100,000
installs uh in the app store called void
pet which I would describe as emotional
support
Pokemon thank you Quincy thank you for
having me yeah it's great to have you
here man like uh I checked my calendar
before we joined this call and the last
time you and I talked was four years ago
and that's like a sixth of your life
right like if you don't want me asking
how old are you I'm 26 yeah so need the
divisions yeah so like that's a lot of
time for Ben to be out of the fold uh
sorry I'm a Ben Folds fan with with the
freeo camp Community uh but you've been
getting a ton of stuff done but first I
just want to address the fact that like
if you look at Ben Awad Tik Tok if you
look at Ben Awad YouTube like production
has slowed down a whole lot I just want
to make sure that the mafia didn't like
do like a a hit on your entire family at
their family reunion like in Punisher
and that there's like that everything is
cool sorry that we can't talk about it
anymore all right all right man unless
you if you want to continue living we
can't talk about it okay okay m is the
word the the the the short answer is
I've just like been very busy working on
void pet the startup and it's like very
hard to like run and take care of two
babies at the same time and social media
as its own baby and its own I always saw
YouTube and Tik Tok and Twitter as a
thing that like I invest into and I put
thought into um and so once I stop
thinking about those things it's harder
for me to like do them in autopilot I
can't autopilot post basically I I like
put a lot of thought even though it may
not seem like it at times um and now
that my thought is elsewhere it's like
not happening at the moment I'm never
I'm going to post more in the future at
some point in time I don't think I'm
done with social media period I still
like social media and posting and making
videos and talking about tech but
currently I'm just like so swamped that
it's it has been happening as you've
been seeing and as everyone else has
been seeing as well and they're like
when Ben when's the next video I'm like
I'm not even planning a next video at
the moment unfortunately wow yeah well I
mean that's totally cool that like you
have two high standards to just put out
you know busy or like merely serviceable
content you want to put out the really
top shelf Ben aad uh and you're not able
to dedicate the time and attention to be
able to do that right now so um maybe we
can talk about uh social media just
because like a lot of people are saying
like social media is dead like uh or
it's it's definitely like a shadow of
his former self Elon Musk has been like
doing weird stuff with Twitter I refuse
to call it X because it's probably just
going to be sold to like some other
company in a few years and like they'll
Rebrand at Twitter so why bother like
switching um you know obviously people
are very paranoid about using like
Facebook products based off of like
Cambridge analytica and the many many
scandals that have transpired and is
this just like a company who I that I
want to support personally like for me
that the answer is not really um and
then at the same time you've got uh you
know Tik Tok might be banned in the US
hopefully not I am not I'm like a very
anti-censorship and I think it's a
horrible precedent for websites to be
just wholesale blocked like they are in
China for example so um so obviously I'm
very much loading this question is
social media dead but but like what do
you think about the social media
landscape right now as somebody who has
I don't know hundreds of thousands maybe
millions of of like followers on Tik Tok
and some of these other platforms I mean
I think the dope thing right now is
Twitter's paying you money to post and
that didn't happen like years ago and
like that it's like a huge motivator
because if you were just like derping
around and putting like funny memes on
there you now have the potential to like
make actual money now unfortunately it
is like kind of pennies and you have to
be like really getting out there to like
get any kind of return so like that is
kind of like the downside too but like
the plus side is like now every single
one of like these social media websites
is like you can make money just like
posting on them that's very cool that's
very motivating and so I really like
that part like Makey bu is cool for just
like making videos and sharing it on
that I will say like I think I have had
less uh I've been enjoying like Tech
Twitter less than I used to and I didn't
know just because I've been like busy
thinking about other things or like the
conversations have like changed a little
bit I'm like less interested or I'm just
like at a different point in my Dev
career that I find it less interesting
to keep up with everything or to to
watch everything and also I don't I just
don't know if like uh like things are
like stalled out a little bit I feel
like when I started it was just like
JavaScript Frameworks Chang so often and
blah blah blah blah blah and then I
learn react and then I just been using
react for the last like four years or
whatever like I feel like uh little
things have tweaked and I have to keep
upgrading xgs and that's annoying but
like for the most part things have been
keeping like pretty low on the like
major changes I mean there's been some
pretty interesting stuff happening too
but that's that's another can of worms I
still find it exciting I also think um
now you have so many different options
if you don't like Tik Tok go make a
short on YouTube if you don't like
YouTube go make a short or real on
Instagram so I think the cool thing is
there's lots of options as well I'm a
big fan of LinkedIn I think LinkedIn is
slept on um you don't get paid unless
there's like you do an accelerator
program but I mean maybe join the
accelerator program um but also I think
what they make up in or they don't have
in monetization yet I think they'll have
it at some point you just have like a
ton of reach on LinkedIn in my opinion
comparatively and very few people are
taking advantage of that that I would
suggest that if you're interested in
this sort of thing yeah uh so a couple
points there first of all getting paid
on Twitter yes free C Camp does get paid
like Dam it's pennies uh I mean we get
like a few million impressions a month
on the free Camp Twitter uh and I think
it barely pays for the eight $8 a month
right the year sub Bas verifi check but
I mean if I were like a comedian or
somebody who is intentionally going out
there trying to create viral content I
imagine potentially being able to buy a
few meals a month off of that money
right probably making a few Hondo yeah
yeah yeah so for me like it's kind of
irritating because now the blue check
mark associated with free Camp is like
almost like a pledge of allegience to
Elon Musk in the sense that we're
willing to like pay but like I've seen
the algorithm that they open source like
assuming that that's actually how it is
and the calculus is always hide it too
oh you can check mark there's an I don't
want to do anything that reduces our
distribution Within Twitter oh yeah
distribution it's purely for what you
just said in the I don't want to look
like I'm pledging allegiance to Elon
they have a setting in there that you
can actually hide your check and I I
don't I would assume it does not affect
your your like where that like because I
know you if you don't get the plan they
don't show you in the foru or whatever I
think you still get shown in the foru
other people just don't look at you and
be like man that's a verified person so
there might be some like you know that I
I think a lot of the people like I think
LeBron James and like a lot down now a
lot of people out there who were really
critical of it have already left Twitter
anyway so yeah I don't think
it'ss can always hang out there yeah
we've been using threads a little bit we
post occasionally on there uh we haven't
seen like really high engagement but you
know we'll see what happens like we
definitely opened that account when it
got announced just in case um yep yeah
and what you said about like you know
Instagram reels and uh YouTube shorts uh
in addition to Tik Tok you're right like
that short form video is is almost kind
of like a commodity that you can just
slot in as a Creator how do you think
about like do you think this video is
going to do really well on Tik Tok but
it's too out there for shorts I actually
do think like that I think the I think
each platform has their own meta and
each almost like Community or like style
of video and if you just take take 10
minutes and scroll through your YouTube
shorts feed scroll through your reals
feed and scroll through your Tik Tok
feed you're going to see very different
styles of video and those are the
different style videos that do well on
each platform and unless you're like
really niched down and you've already
like liked a ton of posts and you're now
just getting recommended very similar
content even in the same niches you'll
get different flavors and different
trends that I do think like that I would
still like you know YOLO and you know
post on some other plat like you know
post the same video even if I don't
think it's going to be the best for Tik
Tok or the best for YouTube shorts cuz
also even though you think that it's not
going to be the best part of social
media is like you never know what your
hits going to be um and so you
just do the play the lottery see what
happens yeah it's it's it's like how
many appats you have right like uh you
missed 100% of the shots you don't take
there you go says Wayne Gretzky says
Michael Scott right um so let's talk
about uh what you've been doing on
LinkedIn because LinkedIn is a platform
I always think of it as like button-
down Twitter like uh to some extent
everybody's there but it's instead of
eating it a Taco Bell you're eating it
like the Four Seasons or something and
uh people are like much more concerned
about how they're perceived and it is
definitely less like free flowing uh but
there is a dir of really good content
there most of it is just like hey I got
promoted like and and that's cool that's
actually really good content on LinkedIn
to be honest and that's why I think
there's opportunity and I think like
what you just said is like the perfect
reason why LinkedIn is great is because
everyone thinks of it as buttoned up and
I think my biggest tip for anyone who's
trying to do things on LinkedIn is
pretend LinkedIn is Twitter and now
start posting and if you can use that
mindset and uh I think the
contrast makes your post stand out a lot
better and people like would rather
consume fun content doesn't really
matter what platform they're on they
would like like if they're scrolling on
LinkedIn they're already in a weird
place like if that's what you're doing
that day and like if you see a good post
that's like funny you're like yeah give
me that a thumbs up I don't need to give
like you know the fifth thumbs up to the
person over here that's like yep just
got promoted there's like you know 70 of
those you know put some content on there
for people that you know that are stuck
strolling on LinkedIn give them some
something yeah well I like I like the I
just got promoted posts personally just
because that that like reminds me of
what social media used to be all about
like it used to be about Facebook like
people like we just bought a house you
know like those types of posts feel good
positive energy real updates from people
that were not just designed to give
engagement but we actually designed to
update friends and family and and seek
you know validation like this is good
right this is a big deal right um and
and yet like uh I Facebook has become at
least the last time I used it it was
basically just a bunch of like you know
news articles and stuff like that and I
think they've tried to move away from
that but yeah my mind it'll always be
like the the misinformation machine
essentially um let's talk about your
personal history though because
everybody comes to software development
with a different you know background
like different baggage so to speak you
grew up here in DFW I actually live in
DFW are you're in Texas now right yeah
no I'm in Texas now I'm in Austin which
city Austin okay so you're you're in the
uh the the Hipster Texas exactly exactly
so uh dot yeah so maybe you could tell
me a little bit about um your childhood
here in Texas uh just because I like to
keep some chronology when I talking so
we're not just constantly jumping around
through time frame like we don't want
this to be like the movie momento we
want it to be like every movie before
momento yeah but yeah know I was raised
in Austin um and I played a lot of
sports growing up funny enough and I
played a lot of video games League of
Legends was like my go-to in high school
and I tried pretty much every sport but
the sport I did best was tennis up until
a freshman year of high school in which
case I just left high school and started
homeschooling the made like remainder
three years and then I kind of just
dropped that cold turkey and only played
League of Legends um and you dropped
school like like completely you just
went straight to the league I just went
straight to the league um and then also
just uh well I mean it's kind of funny
so I basically kind of started college
early because in homeschooling you can
just do whatever you want and so part of
the thing you can do is just start doing
dual credit classes and so you just I
would just like go to the local
community college and do like dual
credit classes which also account for
high school diploma things and you're
also starting to get like the easy
credits out of the way for college um
what was the just switching to home
school was it like that pragmatic like
hey I can get into college and get some
credits and like was it like I'm just
trying to Short
this it actually wasn't like optimizing
for college in like the sense of like
getting credits earlier that just like
happened to be a nice perk that I found
out later the main one was I just like
hated school and I was starting to like
hate learning and that's like a really
bad place to be when you're like in your
younger years of life and I just like
was like dreading it and my mom saw that
and she was like all right like let's
see if we can like re rekindle some love
for learning cuz like there's nothing
that inherently you know someone should
like stop enjoying learning it's if
they're being forced to do things that
they really don't want to do and really
dislike and or like the format's not
working for them um and I think that was
very very good for me cuz that actually
allowed me to like start self-learning
and like I think that's how I was even
successful as a programmer whatsoever is
I got used to self-learning and enjoying
self-learning and that's like a very
important skill if you're trying to be a
good programmer because of just like all
the things that you have to do when you
first start um so that was very big and
then also the cool thing is like that
allowed me to take a coding class
because my high school didn't have a Cod
class but when you're homeschooled I
could just take a free Muk online and
then all of a sudden I'm like starting
on the path for like these interests
that I might even do in college and then
turns out I do do that in college and I
started a computer science degree um and
funny enough my dad was a programmer so
I had like had some exposure to like
coding um like my Dad tried to get me to
start coding when I was younger but I
didn't like it and I wasn't that good at
it and I just I didn't I didn't think
too much of it I was like no no thank
you goodbye but I tried again at when I
was doing homeschooling I liked it a lot
better um there was like a 5050 chance I
was going to be a business major in in
college actually funny enough CU I also
was like I do not want to sit at a desk
and code all day long that was like
something in my head I kind of knew at
the age of 16 or 17 and so for that
reason I was very very close to not
getting a compsite degree but then I was
like hm the main reason I didn't give
business I was like even if you get a
compsite degree I felt like that was
more valuable even if you decided not to
code than to get a business degree so I
was like all right let's go a comps side
degree anyway and whether or not I
decide to be a full-time programmer with
that like we'll see um anyway so I go to
college and I go to DFW area I go to a
college called UT Dallas that's rich
good school yep yep part of the
University of Texas uh super system of
uh research institutions Yep they're
good research school um they're like a
they're very nerdy school like they
don't have a football team the thing
that they Flex is their chess team um so
it it I was like a good fit for that
style of school as well um and then
after college I got my compsite degree I
actually that's when I started doing
YouTube like a little bit more seriously
was like
maybe May sophomore year of college
roughly I'd have to go back and stamp it
somewhere in there and I just started
doing coding tutorials um of the stuff
that I was learning in my free time
because College doesn't teach you webd
and I always wanted to build things with
programming that I could actually use
like that was like the first impetus
like even when I was learning muks in
high school I was like okay I want to do
something with this they taught me Java
so then the first thing that I built was
and if you ever tried to build like a
web application in Java it's a complete
nightmare so I couldn't I was too
daunting I wasn't able to do that yet so
I did an Android app and back then you
built it with Java not cotlin um for the
new people out there and yeah I built
funny and you know probably no surprise
I built a calculator and some stuff my
biggest app that I made was the League
of Legends app of course where you could
like look up your own sumoner cuz you
know I was building my interest and I
was building something I actually wanted
to use U which I think is really
important when you're starting so I was
you know doing that and then I think
that was that was big and I I kind of
knew these things early on like I want
to make things that I can actually use
so I was starting to do webd because I
was like that very clearly makes things
that I can use I can use websites those
are important um and here I am learning
like algorithms and I actually enjoyed
algorithms though so like I I didn't
have any hate towards algorithms I just
was like hey could you also teach me how
to utilize those algorithms for
something interesting interesting and
that was the part that was always
missing um and and the degree but the
great thing free code camp and all those
resources out there are there for you
free to use there's so many things you
can use now um that you can just learn
on your own and they are just as good if
not better than the college courses out
there that are teaching you random
things um and you don't even have to be
in college to use them so use them and
that's what I did and then then I was
making videos as I was learning cuz the
best way to learn something is funny
enough enough to then teach it um the
like cycle I learned in homeschooling
was funny enough I took a class in
homeschooling that taught you how to
learn and in that class they were like
all right this is what you do you you
know learn something either by reading
it writing down notes and then you go
over to the wall and you have to teach
the wall like what you just learned and
it it doesn't even matter that you're
not actually talking to another human
the fact that you're like trying to like
synthesize what you learned is the
important part um so that always stuck
with me and that's why I like started
doing it in in college and also I knew
like if I was interested in doing more
than just being a software engineer I
needed to start like my personal brand
and like started doing like things
outside of just coding and I knew like
to start that I had to start somewhere
and I started with coding tutorials um
and that is where I started with that
and then you know that's College I
graduate and I just start building stuff
and I don't know if you want me to keep
going timeline wise they're like no
let's slow down for a second because I
mean we just
covered I did jump jump jump yeah yeah
so first of all kudos to your mom for
figuring out that you were burning out
on learning burning out on school and
taking the DraStic action of putting you
in The Homeschool now of course we've
had lots of homeschoolers on the podcast
uh Madison Cana never went to any school
not even un she's like homeschooled her
entire life right works as a software
engineer very uh inspiring uh Creator um
and yeah I mean that's like a dramatic
decision like I I left school when I I
was bored with school and I was having
problems with my family and I just
basically dropped out uh sophomore year
and it wasn't like I was just chilling
playing League I was you know sing my
car at the Walmart and uh you know for
about a year and and then eventually I
got a job where I could like mop the
floors at a grocery store before they
opened and like do a bunch of stocking
and I was able to pay my friend a few
hundred bucks to like sleep on his floor
basically that that was like what I was
doing when I was around that age but um
it sounds like what you had uh in your
life going on was you
had a dad who really wanted you to get
you into technology to credit to my dad
he he bought a computer very early on I
was playing with a computer but I was
mostly just consuming I wasn't really
creating with a computer but it sounds
like later on in your your uh teenage
years you got really into creating as
well and using te technology to create
so y I think that's like super chill
that uh you were able to do that and you
were able to like live the dream of
going and getting a computer science
degree at like the normal age like the
traditional student age so you didn't
wake up like in your mid 20s mid-30s and
be like damn I don't have a CS degree
what am I supposed to do right because
that definitely complicates things
having a CS degree simplifies the job
search dramatically right it's it's like
a proof of concept in you as a developer
this guy could actually to get out of
bed for his 8:00 classes and uh you know
build the homework assignments and pass
the tests and and get the degree right
so uh so I think it sounds like you did
yourself you did your future self a lot
of favors by uh I tried I tried and
compounding interest yeah and just a
note on teaching the wall I've never
heard of that notion teaching the wall
but it totally makes sense and it Vibes
with how I learn personally and how a
lot of uh people I know learn and that
is like in medical school they have this
concept of watch one do one teach one so
you watch another physician do a
procedure then you yourself do it and
then you teach another physician how to
do it so it's like kind of like that
three-step process um and it sounds like
you're doing something similar in terms
of synthesizing what you've learned uh
by teaching it so that of course leads
us to your very prolific programming
tutorial career which includes uh among
other things among many other things uh
a react native course that we published
on free Coke camp like five years ago a
long time ago yeah I mean react native
is probably moved on a little bit from
there but if you just want to learn the
foundational Concepts and stuff Ben's
got you covered with this comprehensive
4our course uh but yeah I do want to
hear a little bit like let's jump back
into the chronology uh i' just like to
take a moment to digest everything like
all the knowledge you just
dropped let's talk about like post call
college and so you're graduating with
you were able to graduate with a
computer science degree I did graduate I
have a bachelor's of computer science
and like you said I did like tee myself
up very well to then like go and get a
software developer job or maybe like
some job in Tech um but funny enough I
just decided to not even use my degree
whatsoever and I just started like
continuing making YouTube videos and on
the side I started like building
different projects now the first project
that I built and part of part of why I
built this project and future projects
is I felt like I didn't have good ideas
and if I had good ideas I would start a
c company and like start doing that but
I didn't have any good ideas so I was at
a loss so I was like all right I'll just
build somebody else's good idea or
million dooll idea and if you ask a
friend or family uh member they always
have million dollar IDE ideas so I was
like I'll just build one of their
million dooll ideas so what I started
with is my mom really
needed a way to just like keep track of
all our recipes she really likes cooking
she has like over a thousand recipes
that she bookmarks and keeps and y y so
I buil a product called saffron that's
still live today people still like using
it she still uses it I still use it um
but that was the first project I ever
built kind of on my own that was like a
full complete website and later became a
react dative app um that I built as I
was doing like these kind of coding
tutorials on YouTube and I kind of just
split my time doing both of those things
and that was just kind of what I was
interested and I did like a small bout
of like Consulting on the side to make
some money as well um and then kind of I
just continued that like blend of doing
things for quite a quite a bit of time
and after that project I was like okay
if I can't think of any good ideas so I
didn't think of any good ideas after
that either I'll just make a lot of bad
ideas because through making these bad
ideas I'm sure one day I will come up
with a good idea and so I started making
a lot of joke projects and if you follow
my YouTube You've you've seen some of
them I mixed Instagram stories and the
most popular editor vs code and I was
like okay what if we do the same thing
and we do it with Tinder and it's dating
for programmers and then I was like what
if you mix Clubhouse and you do it on
the web and you mix it with does because
Elon is pumping Doge quy like I just
like started making these things cuz I
was like I house just interject
Clubhouse for anybody who has forgotten
about it or like forg at this basically
it was like a party line type app where
like you basically it's it's basically
Twitter spaces if you ever use Twitter
spaces uh but but people would all call
in and so you can imagine having like do
which is like a kind of a weird internet
meme way of saying like sh knew
IBU yeah it's a dog a cool dog it's like
a very adorable Japanese breed of dog um
and uh yeah for whatever reason it took
off especially among the cryptocurrency
enthusiasts and there was like Dogecoin
and there was uh which was created as a
joke but actually has like a lot of
monetary value much to the chrin of the
Creator who like sold all his Dogecoin
to buy like a used Toyota or something
like that and then uh there there's like
Sheba enu coin which is as like that
look a little bit more of a joke yeah
yeah I mean like a lot of these are just
like hey it's a meme get it like now buy
some you know but uh but so basically it
was like you were trying to hop on the
Doge peakiness uh the fact that the fact
that it was really picking up steam any
crypto related in the project funny
enough and I never even introduced any
Dogecoin that was like a potential later
thing it was literally Japanese dog
themed Clubhouse on the web was like a
better way to describe the like state of
the product when I was buing it's an
audio product though like do you have
like Shea you's barking or like how do
you they were barking but like that was
the logo and that was like there's like
an energy to being a doge and so there's
like that energy was imparted through
the website um and so like it's one of
those things where like Doge speaks to
some people and it doesn't speak to
others so if it spoke to you you
understood and you connected and you
know it doge is almost like a symbol of
like the underdog as well and like at
the time Clubhouse like only was on iOS
and so they were leaving out the entire
population of Android users that wanted
to uh enjoy it so yeah that was a pretty
El latest thing for them to just say oh
you're not rich enough to own an iPhone
you can't use our
app everyone starts on I iOS and they
just leave Android in the dust sad yeah
yeah Android you'll get a lot more
installs you won't necessarily get more
sales but you will get a lot more
installs if you make it a multiplatform
which you can do using uh react native
uh or or flutter which we use for our
mobile apps uh not a flutter fan huh uh
or or you can just do it like uh use
Swift for your iOS version and use uh
cotlin for your uh cotland and you know
all these sdks for your Android version
and you can you can just have like a
crazy nightmare of like trying to get
feature parody between the two uh yeah
flutter yeah so that's very cool so uh I
never thought of Doge as the underdog
but it makes sense because like I think
a lot of the crypto space people think
of themselves as kind of like the
underdog to traditional financial
institutions like Banks and stuff uh so
now that gives me a new lens to view the
entire phenomenon of Dogecoin through
yeah so you're building all these quote
unquote bad projects like uh the best
way to build bad projects is or good
projects is build a bunch of bad
projects and it turns out wow one of
these bad ideas was actually a good idea
like Airbnb who thought that was a good
idea but apparently it is a good idea
right yeah people can crash on our our
living rooms in this case I'd almost
even describe them as a tier lower than
that because I didn't even see a future
for some of these things I think Doge
house is different I actually did see
somewhat of a potential future for that
product Doge house was the name of the
clubhouse Doge thing um I did
potentially see a future for that but I
kind of knew going in Tinder for
programmers and Instagram stories for vs
code there weren't really work there was
not like a future there like I did not
make that without idea that there's a
future there and maybe maybe some other
people make are making projects that way
and it still works out but I like I see
the inherent flaws here and like I'm not
even like trying to like you know peel
back or like handle the flaws I'm just
like the flaws exist this is a flawed
product like I'm making this flawed
video as to practice my coding skills
mixed with it's a funny joke and like
maybe this will give me an idea for a
not flawed project um down the road or
or next um in worst case scenario
somebody finds it entertaining or
inspires them through the video through
the content um so it was I always
thought as like it was like a win-win
either the product actually did better
than I thought it would do which none of
them did but I mean actually some of
them did like a little bit better than I
thought I will admit like I ended up
selling vs code stories for some money
and so like that was cool Ione never
expected that and like there's like a
couple people that are like on their way
and potentially going to get married
through like of the dating app I made
and I was like I didn't think anyone was
actually going to literally use this and
connect with anyone um and so there
there were some cool things but here's
the thing even though these were joke
produ
projects I would always engineer them as
if they were like legit and I always
because that was my favorite part I
actually really liked building so like
for example I it was so silly of me to
do this but I just like could not do
this of like when I was making the like
dating app for programmers I made an
extension for vs code you could type in
but then my brain was like well if
somebody matches with you and you are
not at your computer you wouldn't see
the match and then that'd be so
disappointing if you left them for like
hours because you had to wait the
weekend and then you're back at your
computer or whatever so I was like
obviously we need a mobile app so you
get a push notification when you match
and so then I built an entire react
native portion of that just to support
that and it's like yeah you might as
well be able to swipe on the app as well
so then all of a sudden we now have a vs
code and whole reactive thing I just
like literally couldn't help myself and
it was like that is how it's going to be
I guess and so I was building so it
sounds like your bad projects like
you're first you're building them but
then they're kind of building you and
bossing you around it's like okay well
you committed to having you know Tinder
exension to each one that I was like
yeah that just makes sense so it's like
you're you're almost kind of like
bullying yourself into learning a whole
lot I guess you could describe it that
way but yes like that was the other
thing too like I got a lot better at in
Ing and a lot build better at building
projects through doing this cuz going
end to end is very very like helpful and
useful especially when you're like okay
now that I've done going into end what
would I do differently this time and I
would rework parts of like my stack and
what I was using for the tech each time
and each time I'd like learn something a
little bit different and I like started
to develop over time like this toolkit I
really really
liked yeah and so having built several
of these projects and having sold one
that first of all talk about that
experience I don't know if you could
talk about the numbers there's some
clause in the contract or anything I
mean I don't even know if I publicly
said it already it was for $9,000 so it
was not like a like oh yeah exit I'm
chilling on a beach exit but it was like
I don't need to think about this project
anymore and I was not planning on doing
anything else with this project so I can
just liquidate and you can have this and
it was just I got a random email that
somebody was interested and I was like
yeah you could have it
that's so cool I'm not trying to build
on top of this um and also there was all
kinds of problems with it because as
soon as you allow somebody to upload
images as you can imagine what somebody
would nightmare exactly Camp will never
have an image uploading you know I I
want to deal with that so I was
like you can happily take it off my
hands yeah well that I don't know many
people whose's random like side projects
especially ones that were intentionally
bad ideas uh to start with that they end
up going on to sell uh I mean that's
definitely a feather in your cat man uh
I me I think the there there's like
technically some like potential there if
like the idea is some people were
talking to me about this at the time
which is like all right imagine you have
like uh you're like selling it to
businesses and the businesses like they
really like when all the developers are
like friends with each other and stuff
and they're like that's how they do
their daily standups or they're sharing
a piece of code they're just like doing
a story easily and they're and out
shares to their whole team so there like
theoretically was some potential there
maybe I didn't feel like building that
that sound boring to me um but yes that
was that was a fun
time yeah very cool so you've built a
whole bunch of bad ideas and uh without
jumping too far ahead uh like you
ultimately did build an app with uh your
co-founder I think her name's Lynn uh
that has really like picked up steam uh
do you want go ahead am I missing
anything jumping straight to that no we
can jump we can jump straight to void
pet um void pet definitely has been the
most successful project I've ever worked
on um this was not my idea this was
Linda's idea and the reason I even
started working on this project and I
like knew it was good is because the
project just like did had like such high
conversion on social media it went viral
on Tik Tok and the number of people that
joined a wait list and like tried to
like we had a password protected website
that we made a Tik Tok about how the you
know look at this game that has a
password on it a ton of people tried it
I think it ended up being 2 million
people attempted the like uh website
password and then 100K of them actually
join our Discord from that and I'd been
doing social media for a very long time
not a very long time but like two years
a year um and I had like maybe 10,000
15,000 people in my Discord so the fact
that this project had 100,000 people in
the Discord I was like oh my gosh like
this is this people want this thing
people really Vibe with emotional
Pokemon like that just that idea that
concept I never thought of myself as
making a game ever cuz I didn't want to
be the person that um spent two years
making a game in my room publishing it
and then no one used it like that was
very scary because I felt like I was
that type of person I was always the
like on the side of the spectrum of I
was building too much first and not
validating with customers and then I was
just sad cuz I spent all this time
building and then no one wanted to use
my thing so like gaming was very scary
to me because it was like oh instead of
finding out whether your products bad in
like two months you find out in two
years and that was too scary for me but
this was different because I was like
whoa there's all these people I kind of
know they want it like this there's like
at least this kernel of motivation and
so void pet was also like the easiest to
like start doing and it was like the
first backwards project because the Lunt
was there before I built it whereas
before I always built first and then was
like Hey guys look at this thing I built
this was like people are waiting for
anything to be built that is emotion
related pets and we were like all right
let's just build this thing um and so
that was exciting to me it's like now I
just get to do the thing that I like
which is building yeah so so this time
it's different because you've gotten
some form of validation before you start
building
and you can be pretty confident that
there will be an audience for it so I
mean to some extent like that edifies
the notion of just spamming ideas out
there and seeing what sticks and then
building just having a a landing page or
some sort of like Discord sign up how
did the password page work people had to
guess the password or or just like
people had to guess the password we just
once they guess that they told their
friends so if so this is how it was
structured if you did not know the
password and the password was very
simple I think it was literally the name
of the game at the time or like it was
actually no it wasn't the name game so
void pet used to be called nightmares um
and then we renamed it to void pet
because void pet has way better SEO and
we got the do com like it there's so
many reasons why void pet was a better
name than nightmares nightmares like for
an emotional support too yeah yeah
there's there's plenty of reasons why
nightm like Todd McFarland's or not uh
yeah Tom Farland nightmares you know
something like that uh like having be
edgy re nightmares got rebranded so the
password to the website was nightmares
and so I think part of it was like if
anyone knew the old name the website
they like could just like get into the
game so we didn't even try to make the
password like 100 characters and it was
like you were cracking this thing it was
like a client side form like this like
any like there was no attempt to like
try to make this that difficult um and
like some people would go back in the
Tik toks and like figure it out like
that's the password and crack it and
then eventually we ended up doing making
it so like um if you get the password
wrong get a little message it's like hey
do you want to find out the password
join the Discord and you can ask people
in the Discord and then through that
people join the Discord and then
somebody finds the password and they
share it and they get in through the
game and then that was like the whole
that was the whole thing as that yeah
that's awesome so we were talking
earlier like we we we're going to talk
more about void pep but like let's talk
about Discord because yeah that is like
you know fertile ground for getting a
whole lot of people talking to one
another and uh
there are probably millions of Americans
uh probably millions of people in other
countries too that open Discord every
single day and they're going to see like
that annoying Red Badge notification
they're going to go silence all
notifications or they're they're going
to maybe be like hm why am I getting a
notification and it's just then doing
that at everyone hey check it out like
new release void pets or something but
that is a way of getting people's
attention right it's the new newsletter
it's the new newsletter I like it and it
doesn't cost you $700 a week like my
newsletter cost yeah that one is tough
but also the people that open
newsletters and the people that open
Discord pings is there's probably a very
small overlap so you're hitting two
totally different demographics as well
so I say it's the new newsletter it's
like the newsletter is like how do you
get a 13-year-old to read your
newsletter and the answer is like
Discord not a newsletter yeah yeah
that's a really astute observation that
uh this is this is why we're having
intergenerational discussion Gen X are
talking to the Zoomer
Zoomer borderline Zoomer yeah so maybe
we could talk
about how you've used Discord and how
you've leveraged that as a tool for
keeping the community engaged because I
want to learn like free COC camp we have
a pretty active Discord as well we have
na Naomi runs that Discord she's doing a
great job of it but like any insights we
can have from I mean thece I actually
don't do any secret tips I do two things
one I use it for announcement which is
obviously cuz we just talked about how
it's a newsletter uh I so I have a very
different stance about Community than I
think a lot of other people do and that
um Community managers and people that
really like Community probably think
which is like my general stance is if
you are doing something interesting or
building something interesting people
are naturally going to want to talk
about it and so they going to form these
communities and talk about this thing
and then once that is happening you can
choose to do two things one you can sit
in the community and you can hang out
with them set up events and try to
Foster it within that I don't like that
approach my Approach is if you just
continue to build cool things people
want to continue to talk about them and
that's like the better way to like keep
the community alive like I think the way
you like keep a Vibrant Community is
like the thing that they are bonding
over is like still interesting and now I
think there's also the like you know the
the best answer which is you do both at
the same time yeah both building
something that's interesting and you're
also like engaging with your community
and making sure that there's fun things
going on and that like something
something something but and I think in
like reality it's very hard to do both
so I always focus on the like okay let's
make sure that there's still something
like interesting that people want to
talk about um and I don't always do a
good job with that but that is that's my
goal and then my other tip for like
people that are running discords is like
hire a or find somebody the community
that wants to be like the Discord
president that handles like all the
different
Discord like things for you I think
that's very important because it's very
hard to manage a Discord um if you're
also trying to keep the community live
at the same time like all these things
are like very hard to do at the same
time um plus the person that's there's
people that actively want to help and be
the president and make sure the
community is like you know enjoyable CU
they enjoy being in it um so that's all
my always tip if somebody's trying
trying to do a Discord and they're like
getting overwhelmed especially cuz like
100k was the first time I was trying to
like manage a very very big Discord but
even for my personal Discord uh for my
my YouTube channel of like 10,000 people
I had a server president and that like
helped a lot and like took a lot of the
managing load off of me and they also I
think they enjoyed it for a bit who
knows maybe they did sorry Ian awesome
so uh yeah shout out to Ian for taking
one for the team and being the Discord
president very very fancy like President
Business like him
so uh just to recap your advice if you
keep doing the interesting thing then
people will just naturally talk about it
and yes you can do some baseline level
of management of that Community to make
sure it keeps stays active and doesn't
become you know uh doesn't descend into
a crazy you know Lord of the Flies type
toxic environment which will often
happen if you leave a Discord server on
you know the Bots come in and people
start complaining about the Bots and
pretty much it becomes a complaint
Discord where it's just I inventing you
know all discords devolve that way it's
unfortunate yeah but it's kind of like
your your garden will just devolve into
a tangle of weeds if you don't actively
manage it right so Discord is not any
different from managing a garden really
um so maybe we could talk a little bit
about the SEC so you said just to recap
you said you use it for announcements
and then you said you use it for two
things what's the other thing oh I know
my two tips was get a server president
and I use announcements that was my two
things I don't I don't really do
anything else I mean I think I think a
discord's also very useful in the same
way that like a YouTube comment section
is useful and that like I also like read
a lot of people's messages in the
Discord for like research so like I
personally just like read a lot of what
people say on my own Discord even though
I'm not always interacting with them
they might even think I'm ignoring them
and I never interact with them the fact
is I have like a a lot better idea of
what they think than they think I
probably think but you can't always
immediately fix everything somebody
wants fixed for them but I'm like
usually aware usually sometimes I'm not
but I think the the research one is very
big of just like getting a pulse on what
people think yeah of what you're
building or what your content's about or
whatnot yeah and and that's something
like I do a lot as well just FYI if
you're watching this on YouTube leave a
comment guess the Baseline that I played
at the beginning of the video you know
uh talk about an interesting thing that
Ben has said so far that is of interest
to you I will read those I read all the
comments that subscribe button oh yeah
if you're not one of the 9 million
subscribers Freo K you want to help us
hit 10 million go for it uh but
seriously like I love reading feedback
uh I send that email one of the reasons
my email cost $700 a week to send is
because it's going to 7 million people
uh and you know that Amazon sees is the
cheapest place you can send bulk emails
I was going to say 700's pretty good for
for that too I was like man who are you
using yeah yeah I mean we've optimized
the heck out of that like it s it takes
a lot of time to send 7 million emails
and uh even at like the 10,000 emails
the second like limit and stuff so we've
got like all these IP addresses that are
dedicated for good deliverability and
all this stuff we warmed them up we did
all these things and I'm like very
careful about not including words that
are spam words in my email like so you
can't say promo or bonus or anything
like uh like I only use the word free
one time in the entire email even though
everything in free C is free just
because I don't want gmail which is like
where 90% of our email recipients open
the email it's kind of crazy the amount
of concentration in the email client uh
Market but Gmail user too yeah do me a
favor if you're listening to this go to
your inbox search Quincy Larson uh in
the spam folder and if you see any
emails from Quincy lson say mark not
spam because that does help like teach
Gmail that like hey Quincy lson is not
sending trying to send people like
Viagra prescriptions or something like
that right like Quincy lson is actually
sending free full length courses free
books stuff like that because my
goodness like so many people are like
yeah it's so weird like I always get
your email but then I checked and it's
in spam and I'm like unfortunately
that's just the Gmail algorithm like
there's nothing we can really do about
that yeah it it has a lot of false
positives right um but but by marking
not spam you will ensure that that like
more you'll increase the likelihood that
people will get it and you will probably
not have it go to spam in the future so
sorry for that little aside but but the
thing is I love reading the replies
yesterday we got a reply from somebody
who is like hey I've been receiving your
email since 2016 and I've kind of like
aged out of it so to speak because I
worked as a machine learning engineer at
Google I work for the federal government
uh doing data science and now I'm in a
PhD program and I'm using coding to like
solve physics problems and like I feel
like I know about as much as like the
upper bound of what you're teaching
through free code Camp right so they
probably phased out a free code Camp
yeah yeah yeah and I'm like I'm like
cool and I unsubscribed to him and I
said thanks and I just asked him if he
had any he or she is a he the name was a
very male name uh but uh I asked him if
uh he had any you know anything else he
wanted to share about his coding Journey
or whether he written about it somewhere
hopefully I can share an update if he uh
does uh but but I just thought that's so
cool like we we've got like tens of
thousands hundreds of thousands of
alumni on LinkedIn Alumni network and
many of them are working at like fan
companies and stuff like that one of the
questions I want to ask just to change
gears a little bit we'll get back to
void pet but I I have a bunch of Rapid
Fire questions just to break things up
so one of them you did not go get a job
with your computer science degree you
chose to kind of build a reputation for
yourself through doing like 365 days of
coding tutorials is that right you did
like a solid year of coding tutorials
yeah no I think I did it like a posting
every day for a year talk
about that's a crazy Endeavor if
anybody's ever created the coding
tutorial it's not just like oh I just
sit down and bl it's not like let's chat
on Twitch or you just talk about
whatever like what we're doing right
here you have to put a lot of thought in
planning come up with a topic figure out
how to like teach that optimally maybe
you could talk about what that was like
yeah so the reason why I even started
doing that in the first place is because
I felt like I was actually bad like I
thought I was bad at making videos and I
thought I was bad at coding tutorials
and I also thought I was bad at coding
so I was like the only way I know to get
better at that is to practice it and I
was like I'm just going to like start
practicing this every day and there's
something really freeing about just
allowing yourself okay I don't really
care about how this comes out all I care
about is that I make a video every day
um and I think at some point that does
that doesn't work um but for the first
year it works so like that it like that
was like a huge growth period for me was
to doing that um and I think one of the
things I realized is people really enjoy
that style of coding tutorial too
because what that meant is it included
all the errors so I would make lots of
mistakes in the middle of my coding
tutorials I would even rework large
parts that I had told you like this is
how it should work and then I realized
you know what now that we have this in
place that doesn't really work anymore
but that is how I code when I'm not
making coding tutorials and I think the
fact that being able to show that
experience and how I think through the
problems I think a big thing that's
missing from a lot of coding tutorials
is like the thought process and like how
how we got to that next step I
understand that next we're doing this
but like how did we how did the person
even think that that was to be next and
I think the the thing that I realized
people actually enjoyed and also made
easier on me CU it wasn't like I was
like trying to make the perfect coding
tutorial and I had to plan everything in
advance I'm like when I start like for
example and I was doing a slack clone or
like trying to build this thing I had no
idea how many videos that was going to
be I had no idea all the things I was
going to cover I was like we're just
going to start and see where this takes
us and see where we go with this and
through that process I was like okay
well I mean obviously what makes sense
next is websockets because we want this
chat to like show up right away so now
that we're in websockets let's oh you
know what we don't want anyone to be
able to get our updates we need to kind
of authenticate these websockets so
let's like look dig into that and you
know what now that we're doing
websockets maybe it doesn't make sense
to like send rest requests for all these
other ones maybe we should do a couple
more websocket messages here and let's
rewrite these things and so like it just
like would naturally progress and we
would like add more and more that's a
very different style than most kind of
like a Bob Ross sell like Bob like I'm
going to paint here's my blank canvas
let's start with some mountains and like
oh you know these mountains need some
trees oh you know what like the sky it
may not be a perfectly clear day like I
haven't watched Bob rosson since I was a
little kid but like I love just kind of
the additive nature of his teaching
style and I've always thought like you
could probably teach a lot of things in
a very engaging way if you use like that
Bob Ross approach obviously painting is
very Visual and so people can very
clearly see the dramatic progress from a
blank canvas to like I finish painting
and everything but uh probably similarly
with coding would you consider yourself
like uh somebody like who just kind of
Manders through a tutorial or do you
have like a like an outline when you
start a tutorial so I would say it's
like a mix of both like I don't create
an actual outline I don't write anything
down but I do have like a rough
structure of what I think I want to get
to at some point uh it's very vague very
rough but I would say I'm probably
closer to the Meandering type but also
I'd say I'm a pretty concise person so
at the same time I'm not trying to
meander but maybe it's like REM
mandering a little bit um and also it's
not always all good for example probably
my longest course I think was like a
14-h hour one um and maybe 4 hours in 6
hours in I actually just got really fed
up with the package that I installed for
doing database calls and it was just
really annoying me and I was like I
actually can't do more coding with this
anymore and I just like ripped it out
and we refactored all our like database
calls because I was just like I
literally could not could not take it
anymore and I like I can't recommend
this package like I'm just like not
enjoying it like we're not going to like
continue doing it and like some people
might have been like okay we're going to
now throw away those six hours that we
were using it and like start here and
like start over and be like start from
scratch and like I just like I just I
just the thought of starting over like
that just like so gross to me um and so
like there's there's pros and cons cuz I
know some people you know they might be
put off of that like I just feel like I
just learned six hours of this package
that you then are just like is bad and
you're not going to use but I think like
that's just like how programmers work on
an everyday basis and like you're going
to have that same experience in your day
job or when you're coding a project on
your own and you're like wow this is not
cutting it anymore like this we we can
kind of rip out this dependency like
that is such a standard thing to do but
like if you watch tutorials no one ever
rips out of yeah yeah I can't imagine
being six hours into his tutorial and
just say you know what hey also is this
a marathon recording are you recording
for 14 hours straight no no I broke I
broke it up I just compiled it all into
one video um as as you know like the
YouTube Gods love watch time so if you
have like long videos I was like okay I
always split up my videos in the
playlist but I was like you know this
time let's mash it all into one let's
see what that that does turns out wow it
did a lot better um so like mashing it
all into one is actually a pro tip for
YouTube tutorials yeah yeah if you're
creating like a YouTube course doing the
full length course Works obviously Freo
Camp is built on that notion of just
delivering a single video that has like
Soup To Nuts people really like table of
contents though so make sure you put
that in the description still like that
is necessary yeah uh so uh you would
record this over a long period of time
like like maybe you could talk about the
recording of that 14-hour like how do
you get ready to record like do you have
like a kind of 8 Mile bathroom easier
it's e even easier than you think
because because I'm not planning out the
entire course beforehand I'm just like
okay we are going to start coding I
think that one I did like a Reddit clone
all right we're going to start coding a
Reddit cone the very first video we're
going to spend 10 minutes recording and
we're just going to set up our you know
workspace we're going to get vs code set
up we might even install some extensions
I'm going to use in that video that way
you don't feel like I'm doing like magic
in the middle and so I just like tell
you like that's what I'm I'm using and
like hey let's just do mpm and net to
start our project and like this is it
and we're going to install this package
and so I like yeah I I start a a Tut how
I would start a regular project if I was
coding this like for a private thing
that I wasn't even planning on to share
with anyone I kind of do the same
process for both and for that some
people do do a lot of outlining of like
how am I do all this thing for me it's
literally pacing in a circle and then
I'm like you know I feel feel pretty
good about this let's let's like jam
some stuff out and see how it feels like
for me coding is like the outline and
there's like some cons of that like
obviously you can write some bad
outlines and you have to redo it um and
also I mean I still like all right you
know I think I'm probably going to use
redus for this I'm going use postgis for
that like there's there's some rough
already have some like rough decision
making in the background exactly kind of
like when Bob Ross sits down to like
probably mix his paint on his palette
for the day he's like I'm thinking I'm
going to do like more saturated Hues
today or something like ex you probably
had some no of like how he's going to
approach it right and like here's the
thing too because I've done so many like
SAS projects and like so many like I
built read it and slack and like these
things it's like I'm not rethinking
entirely from scratch how I'm going do
authentication for example first time I
was thinking about authentication I
would just like I just thought about it
for hours off camera and like did lots
of research and got it wrong like
hundreds of times um and so it also was
like obviously the parts I don't know
what I'm doing I'll like I need to like
research and think about those a lot
until I like have until I feel like I
have a good grasp on how I might do it
and then I get do a video and test it
out and like so you're not going to
detch totally cold usually you've I'm
not at least one totally cold it's like
all right I have to at least read the
docks of like how I'm going to like
build this thing out that I have a guess
and then now I have a guess let's try
out my guess and the Try It Out Try my
guess out is usually happening on camera
um and so that that part can go wrong
but um and and like there's actually
some parts in my ts will all just like
pull up the docks cuz it's like you know
what this is like a small thing let's
see that's what developers really do in
real life right they don't have this
encyclopedic tic memory uh now I would
just pull up chat EBT in the middle of
my uh TS probably is what would happen
now half the time yeah yeah I had to
like you know change something with FFM
Peg the other day and uh I just like I
could go read the FFM P docs or I could
just ask GP G me get it done the perfect
use case honestly yeah so uh all the
parameters I even like it made a mistake
and it gave me like the wrong parameter
and I was like wait it's giving me this
output and you said to use this and it's
like oh yeah here let me just correct
the entire here's the entire line of
code that you need to inut in your
terminal based on the output of this
previous step and I'm like cool you know
is it's so useful um let's talk very
briefly about AI cuz AI is the thing
that everybody talks about and we'll get
back to uh creating but uh how do you
use developer tools like that are AI
power do you use uh GitHub co-pilot do
you use uh any of these other tools uh
in it I use Co pilot now I actually I
think I didn't use it for like maybe the
first six months because I thought I
wasn't going to like it and I was like
kind of anti I don't like the idea of
having to upload my entire codebase to
to get Hub to be able to like synthesize
things for me I don't like that part so
I was resistant for a while but once I
started using it it is just like
autocomplete on crack and I really like
it like it's basically just like I type
less and so if I can type less that's
something I really enjoy not having to
type it all out I don't use the function
as much where I like am asking it to
give me code Snippets once in a while
I'll do that but I find like that tends
to be a little bit more arrone I like
the things where just like it happens to
know what variable that I'm about to
reference and clo and like the thing
that's awful doesn't close the curly
brace like it's still a little scuffed
with curly braces right now so that's
like the worst part um and so you you
kind of have to away well I'm going to
autocomplete this but then I have to
backspace back space to fix the curly
brace and sometimes fixing the curly
braces is worse than the actual auto
complete that you know there is there is
a little bit of friction but overall I
I'm a fan I just think it like I type
less with it and that's a plus for me so
like with GPT you're figuring out like
specific instances where it's worth the
trouble of you
whereas like like when I'm trying to get
an FFM command and I 10 minutes try to
look up the syntax and all the flags and
everything uh but uh in a lot of cases
it's simply not worth the time to
correct the output and you kind of Le
actually the other time I use it now
that I think about is like it's pretty
good at giving me ballpark um squel uh
statements too like if I have some like
crazy data that I want to grab um I will
I will will ask chat gbt and it will
like Ball P Park me like kind of the
right place and then I can tweak it from
there to get
there yeah awesome uh a lot of people
who are learning to code like I have
people ask me all this time like is it
academic dishonesty if I'm using uh you
know because like so academic honestly
we take that very seriously at Freo camp
we are you know no pleasure like I'm
very proud to say that I've never
cheated on a test in my entire life uh I
I'm like a like a hardliner and I don't
expect everybody to rise with this you
know thing but but uh for me like it's
just like one of those things like I
can't live with myself if I cut a corner
like that uh and a lot of people in the
free cocan community feel the same way
like people that are learning on free C
Camp and they're like I don't want to do
anything that violates the Norms of
freeo Camp they they ask me all the time
whether this constitutes plagiarism or
that constitutes outside help or
something like that right so um a lot of
people write and the ask like hey
co-pilots you know adding this code to
my project is that okay for me to submit
it and what I tell them is like
technically that's not academic
dishonesty in my humble opinion you're
just using tools but you know maybe
you're limiting yourself by using that
tool and maybe you're not ready to use
that Tool uh how do you feel about like
people that are learning to code and do
you think that these are going to become
like a handicap like somebody who's
doing weight training and then they're
shooting steroids in their arms to try
to get faster results as opposed to just
working harder and you know dieting
better or something I think probably
like at the very very very beginning
like when I'm learning what like an INT
in a Bo is it probably is worthwhile to
like have a dud editor because even when
I was first learning they didn't start
me in like a good Java editor they gave
me like Dr Java or something like I'm
not I'm not learning in like Eclipse
where all like there's autoc completion
all these things so I think at the very
very beginning like I think yeah
probably like you kind of need to learn
some things before you get too much like
autoc completion yeah and like telling
you what to do but I think after that
once you have like kind of like got some
general programming knowledge I would
happily give a junior Dev like co-pilot
and like run with it cuz like it's just
going to be helping you co-pilot's just
going to get be getting better you're
going to be using the JW like using that
for future things like you should be
learning it like how it even functions
and how to utilize it well and I also
think it's like co-pilots like a
different form of like copy and pasting
from stack Overflow and like yes
co-pilot like might be a little bit
smarter but also a little bit Dumber
sometimes and it kind of like evens out
I guess but it's like when I did coding
projects in college like I look up stack
Overflow of like how i' do this snippet
in C++ and then nobody felt weird about
putting that in their you know project
and I think this one's like a little bit
more gray area but overall I'm like yeah
use the tool it's basically you know
similar yeah premise use the tool use
the tool the tool that you can use use
it um like it don't use it yeah yeah and
a lot of people don't like co-pilot like
there are some very vocal uh critics of
co-pilot some of whom I will be
interviewing in the near future uh I
think
also some different uh programming
language apparently like it's just like
a lot worse type script I find is
fantastic which so a lot of it probably
has to do with like the Corpus of code
on GitHub as far as like whether it has
sufficient training data if you try to
get if you try to use co-pilot for like
cobal or something like that you might
have I've heard even like C for example
it's just like not as good compared to
typescript yeah that's good to know uh
for all the C devs out there uh we got
some C courses coming we're working with
Microsoft on potentially uh publishing
some additional C certifications if you
haven't heard you can get a free C
certification joint certification from
free COC Microsoft uh on freeco camp.org
freec camp.org learn anyway sorry little
plug for C good yeah um so one of the
things you mentioned earlier was Eclipse
very popular open source IDE for
primarily I think Java development yep
yeah uh and you didn't like or you you
you felt that it was too powerful for a
beginner where would you strike a
balance like for the people out there
who are relatively new to learning the
code like dropping somebody into Eclipse
versus dropping somebody into another
tool that I know you love
them that's a good that's a good one I
actually don't even think it's the end
of the world if you're like very first
editor is eclipse and I don't even think
it's the worst if you like literally
start with co-pilot but I think if I was
like trying to craft the ideal learning
experience for somebody I would not put
them in that and I would put them in
something like a little bit simpler just
so like they're they're not trying to
like what the heck why is there this
gray like text popping out at the very
beginning when they're first just even
trying to like mouth feel the word Bull
and and for the first time like that's
not even a words you say um and so I
that's that's one thing I feel like um
and like and here's the thing if your
beginner class starts in Eclipse I think
a lot of them probably do it's like not
a big deal like you're going to be fine
your eclipses you're eventually going to
learn anyway um I really think them you
shouldn't learn until like you're like
I'm a programmer like I want to be a
programmer like I think a real
programmer EXA like I use butterflies
exactly yeah I'm going to L to this
excellent uh G uh XKCD comic about real
programmers exactly like I love
programming and I love them um but if
you're in the if you haven't finished if
you don't feel like you're like mildly
like proficient at even like one
language like python Java C++ and you
don't know whether you're going to be
programming for the next 10 years don't
learn Vim Vim is an investment Vim is a
bunch of key binds to make you code
faster and if you don't think you're
going to be coding for the next 5 years
or you don't know whether you're going
to be coding for the next 5 years you
should not learn F but if you're at the
place where like I was like man I'm
going to be coding for the next 5 10
years and so as soon as that that I know
that that's a thing for me I'm going to
be investing in like setups that like
help me over the long term and one of
those things is f and so I'm I'm a fan
of that as soon as you know that for
yourself and maybe that's after your
third language you learned maybe that's
after it's going to be a different break
point for different people but until
you're there I would say not worth
earning and also I'd say it's even less
necessary necessary now that like
co-pilot is like kind of doing half the
work too and like vs code is getting
better so I would also only really learn
Vim if you feel like you feel like you
use your fingers a lot like I also just
like would do a lot of coding on a daily
basis if you feel like you know you're a
more like chill programmer like you're
coding like two hours a day maybe then
like you know like Vim still like nice
to know but like I'd be sitting there
like making these TTS and like doing
these things and I'm just like coding a
lot during the day and like I can't be
bothered to like move my mouse for like
the hundredth time like I just need like
w pow W pow pow um so it also is like
how drained are you from the like
average use case of not using them too
yeah and I'll just quickly plug on like
not liking to use a mouse I don't like
using my mouse either I like doing
everything with keyboard I created this
video that I'll link to about if you're
on Mac OS you can do almost everything
without ever you know touching your
mouse uh like these command hot keys for
jumping around and text and stuff they
work in EM I learned them for emac
actually because my friend is like emac
and then it turns out they work all
across uh terminal on Mac like in the
actual OS any text you're editing so I
just call them the controls hot keys but
uh I'll I'll find a link to that and add
that too yeah I have keyboard for my for
my browser and for my terminal that I
have them key bindings on but I don't
have it at the OS setting that's kind of
cool yeah it's just built into Mac uh
which is kind of cool speaking of
machines uh you're a Linux
fan uh I mean I am a Linux fan but I'm a
Mac User so that's where I S Spectrum
yeah have you like maintain like Linux
machines that you worked on in the past
so I uh I was on Windows like the first
like chunk of my life because I was a
gamer and then I like when I was like
man Windows is I learned pretty quickly
like Windows is like absolutely awful
for web development and like it's Gott
like a little bit better with like the
Linux subsystem and there's some things
that are helping but like before all
those things it was like even worse than
it is now and so I was like I very quick
like this is not it and so I tried
setting up my own Linux um setup when I
was doing that the main thing I realized
pretty early on for myself is I hate
configuring things I like got so sad
sitting there like whenever anything
would break this is part of the reason
why I stopped using Vim in terminal and
I started using vs code with Vim key
bindings is cuz like I reached this
point where like my favorite part of
programming is like building things not
configuring things as soon as I'm like
trying to set things up or things are
constantly breaking I like don't like
that not a fan whatsoever um and so the
fact that things just work in Mac a lot
more often than in Linux is the reason
why I am now on Mac like it is just like
things are easier to set up they happen
to just be working more I don't have to
tweak things and I totally understand
that you can like set up your arch box
or your buntu box to be like very close
and like get it there but then like
something breaks at some point whenever
I did it and then like I'd be like I
just don't want to deal with this and so
I eventually switched to Mac and now
that's where I live and that's where I
program and that's where I I am in it
now of like that is the part I I care
about let's talk a little bit more about
your day-to-day kind of workflows and
like how you approach the day you're
you're a prolific person who seems to
have a high degree of like self
motivation uh and you get things done
and like I would say of all the things I
respect people for I respect them for H
you know being thinking people who who
have ethics that they adhere to I think
it's the highest virtue one can aspire
to is is being you know the uh what is
it the
uh gosh we're recording this live and I
don't do any editing so uh
living the examined life right uh that's
probably the highest thing but the
second thing I respect people for is not
just talking a big game but playing a
big game like getting things done and
you get so much done I want to squeeze
ring some of those productivity tips
from venad while I have him on the call
maybe you could talk about like what
your day-to-day flow is like when you're
in work
mode I'd say I have one big productivity
tip that I think is the ultimate one
which that I do which is just sleeping 9
hours I just think that like for
programming and anything that is like
you do have to do like a lot of thinking
because I think there's a lot of jobs
out there that are you could kind of
autopilot but it's really really hard to
autopilot coding um you need to sleep a
lot like and I think I have a lot of
friends that sleep six or seven hours
and like can get get get or like do
totally fine with that I try to do that
and call and I've tried to do it in the
past cuz I wanted to like save two hours
of my life not Durling in bed and I
couldn't do it I just like everything
got worse but I I was sadder and like I
couldn't get as much done and for
whatever reason I just feel so much
better if I sleep 9 to 10 hours um and I
can think way better I can code so much
better so like that is my tip to anyone
out there is like that's my biggest one
if you're trying to be like improve your
productivity as a programmer that's
that's a big one um is that I think the
other thing is just like it's like the
boring basic it's like work out eat
healthy food like you know those things
I think all like really matter I notice
for like myself particularly and I don't
think I'm any that much different than
anyone else it's just like when I
physically don't feel comfortable at my
like desk coding then I will perform
worse big surprise so that means like I
care a lot about like ergonomic chairs
and like a comfy keyboard and I really
like my mouse and like I want to make
sure I don't like have a stomach ache
cuz I ate too much spicy food at lunch
and I just like oh wow so you you really
like it goes down to your diet like
dietary considerations like that you
avoid spicy food not because you don't
like spicy food but because of the
potential consequences lat on day if I'm
like I'm trying to be a productive God
then I'm not eating spicy food I also
really like spicy food so I mean it
still happens sometimes um
but I I if I'm trying to like hone in on
my productivity like those are the
things that I think about um and like
the more I feel good sitting at my desk
the more good work gets done and so
optimizing like a really good desk setup
and a really good um like environment
for that I think is like very important
and so that's that's how I think about
it yeah yeah I what sleep tips do you
have okay like there's probably like
entire blogs dedicated to good sleep and
there's like entire companies that built
products around this but like what is
your sleep setup I mean I think it's
really hard but I think the best one is
to have like the same bedtime every
night CU then you like I think I go to
bed at like maybe 10: p.m. and you know
when you hear somebody has a a bed time
at 10 p.m. you're just like loser alert
like they're uncool it's so like it's a
tough thing it's like you know
especially if you're in college like you
know Friday night like things happen and
I don't always go to bed at 10: p.m. but
the and like some people you know 10
p.m. just happens to work for me like
maybe 11 it's it's 11: p.m. for you or
it's 12:00 p.m. for some people or you
know midnight um it's different for
different people but I think that's the
biggest one is like you just get into a
rhythm and then once you're in a rhythm
it's like so easy to go to bed at that
time I the tough part is actually the
tough part is not actually the Sleep
part it's like like juggling the social
obligations around that um and so that's
something you kind of have to figure out
with your own life and what you're doing
and like um yeah sometimes you just you
know it's it's tough like you know it's
it's it's a balance you got you got to
choose where you want to be in the
Spectrum um and so like that's the
biggest one for me I think you know
there's the obvious ones don't like use
your phone play video games for bed like
I'll like read like fiction sometimes if
I have like if I'm having a rut of not
being able to sleep like the biggest one
is cuz of my brain's like thinking too
much before bed I'll like read a like
fiction book to like calm down like
think about something totally different
um but I think the biggest one and the
hardest one and that's why if if it was
easy everyone would be doing it and
everyone would just be waking up feeling
energetic and fantastic um is yeah
having a regular fed time yeah yeah
that's so cool that's a that's a you're
getting the legit Straight Dope Pro tips
here from Ben y uh so let's talk about
um just developer careers and and then
we'll we'll end on void pet because I
want to talk more about that but like
let's talk about you not going the Fang
route and you've said before in the many
many interviews I've listened to of you
over the years just to prepare for the
day that I would eventually interview
Ben aad himself so you you've said I
think in the past that like the best
thing you can do for your developer
career is like get a job at Google
because then from the rest of your life
you are a exg googler right like and
that's a way to build credibility but
let's say hypothetically that people are
like 90 plus% of people are not like
college only 1%
who
are talk to some Google rep like a
career fa and be able to get an
interview right everybody else is like
applying through the front door um yeah
what are some alternatives to getting a
job at like a Fang company that can
also permanently kind of like set you up
for success and what have you pursued I
mean I think I mean obviously I took
like a very very different route which
was like not even like getting a job
whatsoever but I think I think the most
important thing is like to set yourself
up if uh for like getting good so like
if you're a good developer and what I
mean by that is I think some people
think about like oh machine learning or
AI pays the most so then I'm going to
learn Ai and I'm going to do that thing
I think that's a fine way to think about
it too if that works for you and if it's
working for you fantastic but I think
like the more interesting way to think
about it is to like set yourself up to
be like very good at the type of
developer um that you want to be and
like fronted developers can make make
more money than backend developers but
backend developers can also make more
money than AI developers if they're very
good like the caveats always if you're
very good and so I think like what you
should focus on is figuring out and
finding the programming Niche that you
want to really spend the next 10 years
on and that's hard to do like but that's
something I thought about when like I
was in college and I was trying lots of
different subjects and I just found like
I really enjoyed full stack development
and I enjoyed building like this these
applications and being like a product
appli a developer was my favorite part
but for other people it might be I love
making like really cool like animations
on the front end that like many
interactions that are like really
beautiful and I think if you can hone in
the faster you can hone in and figure
out what that is for you um and then
focus on that I think that's just like
how you can have like a really
successful career is being like very
strong at like one of those things and I
think you can also be strong at multiple
things because obviously like to be a
strong full stack developer you also
kind of have to to be able to like kind
of do front end and kind of do back end
so I think you can also um you don't
have to literally be stuck for 10 years
but at the beginning I think you should
choose one and like build a pillar up
and then build another pillar up and
then build another pillar up um if you
want to be a broader person anyway um
but I think that's my biggest tip is
yeah not everyone needs to go to Google
and to to like have a fantastic career
and I think most people honestly end up
going to Google after they've gotten
their first job I think like the the
past forward to like having a strong
career is like getting any job like the
hardest part is like breaking in I feel
like so getting any software engineering
job even if it's at a small startup XYZ
to like prove yourself and build up some
of these skills and like figure out what
you even like um and like what are the
like professional environment feels like
uh then I feel like you can work your
way to Google or work your way to and I
I don't even think Google's like the I
like Google was way more prestigious
like four years ago I feel like like
that I feel like that they're kind of
also losing some of their Prestige um
where's the most prestigious place to
work right now in 2024 dude I don't even
know I feel like right now the hot thing
AI I don't know if people really want to
work at open AI it's like kind of like
crazy with uh what's happened with uh
Sam and getting kicked off and like
coming back so maybe open AI is like a
little bit more turmoil right now I feel
like before that happened open I was
like the hot company to be because
they're like on the frontier of AI and
that could be take over the world um um
I mean I mean Google and Facebook are
working really hard on uh yeah as well
they're trying like I think the I mean
here's the thing you can't go wrong with
Fang either like I don't think you're G
to be like darn I'm not like the most
prestigious ever I'm working at Google
Now Google's good Google's good like you
should be happy if you work at Google I
think Google's a good job like if you're
happy at Google you should work at
Google and I think there's there's like
plenty of other places to be happy that
you might even like better cuz like a
lot of people really enjoy small teams
I'm somebody who really likes small
teams and like Google is going to be a
very big machine with a big Cog and like
there's some great things like free
lunch but like sometimes free lunch is
worth giving up for like having more
flexibility and like being able to like
I mean Google's pretty flexible so
that's a bad example but like having
more like um flexibility maybe within
your role um and doing touching
different parts of the the thing so I I
think to recap I'd say one I think
figuring out what you really want to be
and specializing is very helpful in your
career and to like getting that first
job proving yourself and working up the
ladder is like you can that that's very
much like a great way to do it I don't
think if you didn't start at Google
you're doomed I think that's like the
wrong way I and has your thinking on
that evolved because like my
understanding is you did go through like
several Google interviews and they kind
of like bandied you about and
like at some point you just like lost
interest in working for Google right
yeah so I I orig so this was my original
thought process in college I was like
okay I know eventually I want to like
start a startup or do a business of some
sort like that's my interest like I even
knew that in like end of high school I
was like I don't want to work as a
regular software engineer like working
at a desk for whatever reason I just
like had that feeling in me um um and so
when when I got to college I was like
okay but my plan's going to be I work at
Google for a little bit and then I'm
going to like you know pick up some
skills and then do this um but honestly
I just like couldn't be bothered to like
like even the the starting to like do
the interview process and like start to
do the things I just got like the ick so
hard I was just like I cannot do this
like even though like I thought this
might be the path forward I was just
like I like leak code to some extent
like it's kind of fun doing algorithms
but at the same time it's like kind of
not and it's like kind of useless and
it's like kind of not useless it's just
like I just couldn't be bothered with
that whole system I just really disliked
it and it just like you're talking about
like the The Gauntlet the Whiteboard
coding interviews
and you went through some of those with
your Google application so for me I did
a okay there's this thing if you search
it on Google uh there's a chance like a
little popup comes up that's like would
you like to do a coding challenge
there's a name for it I forget what it's
called my friend got that and then they
were like man it lets me invite another
person to this so I they invited me I
did a little like coding Challenge and
basically you're just solving algorithm
problems and if you solve enough
algorithm problems they then invite you
to do a second like just like a coding
project thing in like a browser and I
think I solve some algorithm thing I
made it to the next like thing in the
process um and then I did a like Google
doc thing that's like the standard
Google interview you're you're kind of
pair programming or you're like live
coding in a Google doc I did something
um and then I can't remember if I didn't
do it good enough or like what happened
but I did a second um coding doc
interview and then I either was not good
enough or something happened tldr like
they were like um the the window has
closed for this um you know part of when
Google hires for like the new grad
positions and you'd have to wait and
reapply at the fall and I and I was like
I just don't want to wait 3 months and
it wasn't that long it was like two or
three months before it was going to be
fall um and do it but I was like I can't
even I can't be bothered I like if I
wasn't good enough now like I'm not
going to wait and reapply and do it then
and then I I was just like I've lost my
interest like I was already I was
already borderline and then the fact
that I just like I was I could just tell
I was just like going through the
motions and like not having a good time
even at the beginning and it wasn't like
I was like excitedly like yes I just
can't wait until I work at Google as
soon as I was doing my my things I was
just like uh to some extent the
interview process kind of like killed
the romance for you yeah yeah yeah um
well you've also applied to uh you know
another prestigious institution out
there in Silicon Valley uh the Bay Area
um and that is why combinator true uh
maybe you could talk a little bit about
y commentator the accelerator like what
inspired you to apply there that one was
simple because basically I don't think
that one's like at the time I think this
institution some people would argue has
been watered down a little bit um I mean
even back then it was you could say that
was the case but I think if you're
starting a startup one of the best
places that like like as as excited as
people were for Google for software
engineering the equivalent for startups
was YC everyone wants to get into y why
combinator short for YC everyone wants
to get into that that was like the path
that was like what everyone's excited
for so like I actually didn't know too
much about it but when I was making Doge
house I applied to YC cuz I was like
maybe this startup has a
potential and like obviously like
there's there's I was I applied with a
doge themed like you know Clubhouse so
like there there was some problems there
but obviously like the point of YC and
stup incubators in general is the first
idea you land on or you apply with you
may not necessarily stay with and you
kind of figure out what it's going to be
and it might look totally different when
you ENT in the program I ended up
applying late because it was like
already past the deadline of when you
could apply so either one my application
wasn't good enough to get past the apply
while I also late because the project
there could have been like many of
things going on there but tldr I got
rejected from that but also basically
most people have been rejected by YC and
unlike uh a lot of other things YC
there's almost like this stigma around
it of like you just apply this YC like
lots of times like if you if you're
somebody who's dedicated and like trying
to do startups and build
businesses like all right you might not
have your stuff together on the first
round but apply the second round and
apply the third round I think they have
some stat like most people that get into
YC have applied like two or three times
to it or something so like there's some
they I I didn't take it as a like Crest
fall and like I'm never going to make it
and I was just like this is part of the
process like this is like like um and
obviously I also I and here's the other
thing I didn't go in thinking like I
there's no way I'm not getting accepted
like this is like the project they're
going to take me on like I knew I could
I understood from their point of view
why they might not have accepted me and
so there wasn't any kind of like
dissidence between where I was like oh
my gosh I can't believe they didn't take
me but yeah I I applied got rejected
from Doge house and that did not happen
either so like I've been rejected from a
lot of Institutions and places before um
and I just like try to keep going and I
like I also ask myself like do I even
care about working through the
rejections and getting to the place um
or not because like sometimes you don't
and so you shouldn't try to pursue it
and sometimes you should because it's
worthwhile and yeah so so just like with
Google you you did the math and you're
like nah I don't want to bother with
this anymore and YY you similarly you're
like cuz I mean you probably could have
applied with void did you apply with
void pet so we we applied with we
applied uh with void
pet the like a later year um but I can't
remember if if this is it happened at
the same time we basically got to a
different accelerator so we ended up
going to a different accelerator than YC
when we applied with void pet so I don't
know if we got formally rejected or not
I cannot I can't remember we might have
been rejected one time and then the
second time we were planning on applying
but the thing is we were making a game
and YC you don't really you don't really
apply to YC making a game I think
there's some people that are are in
gaming and they do YC and they like
maybe do something but also YC is kind
of like not for that for the most part
so also we kind of knew it wasn't the
perfect fit and there was another like
accelerator for gaming that just started
um and so it was called speedrun and so
that was the one we like well this is
like a much better fit for us so we
ended up doing that one cuz it's like
actually meant four games so we ended up
doing doing that one got into that that
worked out great um and so we did that
what was that experience like just for
people who are interested in doing like
an accelerator a lot of game devs
probably listening to this uh what I
actually think speedrun 3 might be
taking applications right now so like if
you're a Game Dev watching this like you
can go apply Google speedrun a16z is the
firm that runs it um you can can apply
Andre and Horwitz yeah yes yep you can
apply to it now and uh I think it was
fantastic I I think for me the uh
biggest thing that I got out of it was
being in like a cohort of other people
building things similar to me because
before that I hadn't done anything in
gaming I didn't really know too many
people in gaming I didn't know other
people making games that like were also
trying to make a business out it and
like had the intensity that I had so it
was also very nice to just like talk
with other people that were doing what I
was doing it's like why is School useful
why is college good it's because you
have all these people at a similar stage
of life that like you can like talk
through what you're going through and
like doing that so I'd say like I would
definitely recommend it and it was very
helpful from like that point of view
also obviously they give you money so
like you you get money to like start
your business and that's like very
crucial when you're at the very
beginning so the combination but like
basically every accelerator is going to
give you that it's like yeah it's one of
those things that's like combination of
money and also the cohort and like what
you learn from doing that it's very
powerful and like I definitely recommend
it to people and like once you're kind
of done an accelerator you're kind of in
with um with that like you just have
like access exactly exactly that's cool
so uh you went was it an in-person was
there an inperson component there was an
inperson component to this one this one
was optional but I actually just like
lived in SF for a month to do it cuz I
had never really like lived in SF or San
Francisco um and so I was like I wanted
to like see if I would like maybe want
to move there or not um and so I was
there for the month for that um and so
it was great like doing stuff in person
and like actually hanging around SF for
the first time because before that I
hadn't spent like that much time there
um and so that was last May that I did
that um so that was cool and I
definitely enjoyed the iners part of it
and just on a personal like living in SF
like being a Southwestern I guess you
grew up in Texas I I partially grew up
in Texas I'm from Oklahoma City really
um but
uh being out there in California this is
your second big jump out to California
because my understanding is you lived in
La for a while in like Creator eom the
Creator mea right yeah well can you talk
about like just very briefly like your
experience in LA versus San Francisco
versus Austin because they're really all
three of them are kind of like big Tech
you know cities if you will um a lot of
companies based in all of them that are
doing exciting stuff and maybe maybe
what the like local Vibe of the
communities are the developer
communities are in those three cities
and how you compare contrast yeah
definitely say the stereotypes are true
like when I went to LA it's very like
entertainment focused it's very very
Creator focused obviously I was a
Creator so I was also going to those
things um and I think here here's like
the other thing too is like if you're it
it really depends the bubble that you're
in like for example I I feel like La is
really tough to be in if you not wanting
to do and be around creators
entertainment people and if you're not
doing that it's very hard to like meld
with that culture or you might look like
an outsider like and so I think if
you're just like a tech person and you
show up in La people might just be like
what are you doing here why are you here
like what is this um and like but if
you're creating content all of a sudden
like you're a Creator like me like
there's Creator parties all the time and
like there's all these things you can do
to like do that and I think that's very
cool and I think the inperson element of
that's like really great I think SF like
the stereotypes are true it is a bunch
of nerds building things in SF lots of
big money there software things are
happening there's lots of people that
care about building startups and like I
I really liked the like culture of SF
from that point of view CU like I'm a
builder like nerd type as well and like
I really enjoyed that and I really like
people are a lot more humble in SF like
I honestly I just feel like the
stereotypes are kind of like
like true um and I think it really
depends on like what what you're trying
to do with like your life and like what
your goals are like if I was trying to
be like the biggest Creator then I would
probably like do more things in La if I
felt like I was also trying to do like
in-person things in La um and get the
value out of it and I think if I was
starting to make a startup that was like
selling to businesses I would live in SF
because that is where the like Hub of
all these things are happening to and
all my friends have businesses that I
might sell my product to and then like
that like network is like very
invaluable and you like do that sort of
thing I'm in Austin now for like a very
simple reason which is like Austin's
really cheap and I really like the like
option of like having like infinite
Runway and not feeling like there's a
lot of pressure to like you know bust my
I like work really well if I don't have
like a glooming pressure on me that I
have to do something um and so like I
know that for myself and the fact that I
can just like kind of like live like a
king in Austin and like the cost of
living is just like a lot more in like
LA and SF that like I have to either be
like the trade-offs have to be worth it
and like for us we kind of know for for
void pet if we move to LA or SF at the
moment it's not going to make void pet
two times better but like other
businesses that might be the case like
your business might get two times better
if you move to SF or LA and like we've
tried that's why we we like stayed in LA
or not La SF for the month in like last
May CU I kind of wanted to see like
would void pet be like 2x better if I
was an SF for a month even um from doing
that I feel like there's there and there
was like we almost moved to s it was a
pretty close call but overall we felt
like the fact that like the expenses of
like living there just like didn't uh
yeah make it worth one of the most
expensive cities in the world certainly
like people think New York City is
expensive but wait till you try to run
an apartment and San Francisco like
they're both just brutal yeah uh and and
that's one of the reasons why I moved
back to to the Southwest uh move to
Dallas is because um being like yes it
was a huge opportunity being in San
Francisco going to meetups every night
meeting all these different Founders and
stuff but the cost of living in San
Francisco is like 3x living in Dallas I
mean it was ridiculous uh so it was an
easy decision some people are enabled to
make 3x money by living in an S and I
think other people it's harder to
capture that value and so I think you
just have to figure out for yourself and
what you're doing whether like that's
the case or not yeah and I mean you can
always go for the you can always have
the inexpensive house in Texas and go
spend weeks in San Francisco like I did
last summer uh doing all the you know
Tech events and and meeting all the
that's what I like too is I feel like I
have infinite like possibility to travel
now because I feel like if I live in SF
or New York I feel really weird like
leaving my apartment and leaving that
City that I'm paying so much money in in
to like keep whereas like I like if I
want to go live abroad for a month like
I don't feel any kind of weirdness like
and not like just like hemorrhaging
money at home um because of that so and
even if you have a lot of money like it
feels bad to spend yeah $4,000 on like a
one-bedroom apartment or something each
month it's like more than $100 a night
that's like staying in a hotel
practically just having an apartment you
know uh and so I definitely think that's
a good economical decision I mean here's
the other thing too though is I think I
like the culture of like SF and the
happenings that they're better like I
think the tech scene in Austin is like
less good I think it's trying to get
there and it's trying but it's not there
quite yet um and so that's the other
thing I kind of also know that like yes
I'm getting this thing for like cheaper
but it's like also coming at this cost
and it's like well am I okay with that
cost the answer is like right now yes um
I am like totally okay with that that
switch and like I can always fly out and
do the events when I like am I'm like
feeling like I want to and need to and
like so yeah yeah and tell us a little
bit about your co-founder like because I
mean co-founding something is like a
marriage from what I understand like of
course Freo Camp thankfully like I just
Creed it myself I we haven't had any
founder drama or anything like that but
at the same time I had to do a lot of
the early stuff myself now of course
we've got a team we got an amazing
community of volunteer contributors who
are driving things forward and doing
most of the work at this point but like
for void pet uh a a lot of the work is
being done by you and by your co-founder
still probably I don't know how whether
you all have employees yet but maybe you
can talk about like running that start
up early stage you got some degree of
traction you've got a ton of people in
the Discord you got people buying merch
I saw you like packaging up yeah
plushies yeah talk about startup life
yeah so we're a team of three now we
have one game designer um kind of like
between me and Linda the one thing we
were like both kind of missing was like
both the uh experience and also the like
desire to like think through a lot of
the necessary things you have to do for
like creating really good gameplay and
loops and like there's just like a lot
of thought process that goes behind the
scenes and like keeping games fun and
feeling like you're rewarded the entire
way through that it doesn't maybe seem
like that from the player that you're
just like I'm getting stars and I'm
leveling up and I'm feeling great
but as soon as you like make them and
you create a couple of systems and
people stop playing it after a few days
cuz they beat it all and they're like or
they like didn't you know they played it
for the other end is like they played it
for six months and they can't beat it
like there's like there's like all these
little knobs and like finally tuning
that correctly was like very difficult
um but yeah I really like like small
teams and I feel like we get a lot done
with like a small team of us and we were
able to get uh a lot built out cuz
here's the other cool thing is the right
now how we feel about our product and
each product is very different is right
now um our main thing is just like
figuring out what we actually want to
build and making sure it's like really
good and like that's very difficult and
you have to like more people thinking
about that is not always better um and
like between Linda is fantastic at
design and product and like I'm really
good at like coding and building out and
like doing the product together
and the combination of our game
developer and like we feel like we have
almost like everything we need to like
make void pet even better than it is now
and now it's just like a matter of time
of like slowly building this thing and
like tuning it but I mean I this is like
how early startup life is is all right
we try this thing this thing either
worked or it didn't work let's try it
again oh we're in the pit of despair
things aren't going well oh all of a
sudden we're doing like a little bit
better oh we're doing worse again oh
we're doing a little better and so this
is just like what my life is is like
that and like that's just what it is to
like run a business but that's also why
it's fun like I really like having the
like control of like man if I do a
really good job I get really good like
things in return but if I don't do a
good job like it's worse than working at
McDonald's like I would actually be
better if I like was working frying
print fries because I actually just like
bankrupted myself or I just like made
such a i I like I like that level of
like accountability and so I know some
people that's like very scary but I
really like that um but well I mean to
be to be completely fair you've got a
skill set you've got a reputation you
got all these things to fall back on if
this doesn't work out right I mean here
here's the thing too if you're if you
you and then that that's that's like
very true which is also like it makes it
a lot easier like if like the company
totally failed I could go back to like
making YouTube videos and like making
coding tutorials and like doing that
thing so it's like a lot easier if like
you could say have like a safety net of
feel but also I think through to the
process of like making a company makes
you very employable as well because you
should be like learning way more skills
like here's like a thing if you are
starting a company you are learning more
skills at a faster rate than probably at
a job and that's just like kind of the
reality of it it's like at a job you're
probably going to be learning for the
first like year or two at that job and
then you're probably going to like
slowly comp out your learning curve
which is why a lot of people recommend
like changing jobs after a year or two
to like maximize salaries and like also
maximize learning that like that's very
important otherwise you Peter out and I
think that's the cool thing about doing
a startup is like you can like I mean
same thing can really happen at startups
too though is you can you can like first
few years you're like learning and then
you're just kind of like chugging along
and there's no longer a lot of like new
learnings but that's also you kind of
get to choose how fast you learn in a
startup is the other thing it's kind of
like homeschooling you could say like
how much structure do you want how you
get to choose it for yourself so I
really like Choice as you can probably
tell and FIB it sounds like you've
optimized a lot of your life around
choice and uh not necessarily like I
guess you don't even necessarily have
the context of having a boss and being
in a cubicle and having that uh that I'm
going to need you to come in on Sunday
you know thing yeah and I I did um I did
do an internship in college at Bank of
America and that's like very that was
very clear to me like man I did not like
this um so I I did have that experience
of like yep that's I didn't like it not
a fan obviously banks are a little less
exciting than say like tech companies
but I was
like I did not like
that so uh I mean it sounds like some
parting wisdom to people listening to
this is if they want to do uh a project
if they want to pursue what would be
like some things you recommend they
don't do if they decide to start an
entrepreneurial project like uh like a
mobile game for
example honestly I'd say don't even
think about the don'ts I think you
should just enable yourself because I
think the main reason like you're going
to fail is not because you didn't go and
do the thing it's because you just like
never actually did the thing I think
like it is pretty like I have made so
many bad projects the only reason I even
got to void pet in the first place is
because I didn't give up and I kept
building things and I like I didn't even
think and like you're going to naturally
figure out the don'ts and you're going
to naturally like those things are going
to come up and you're going to figure
out over time and you learn a lot better
on your own but what you're not going to
do is you're most likely not going to
try it so I would say I'm not even going
to tell you why you shouldn't make a
mobile game I think you should make a
mobile game I think you should make the
game you should make the app like
there's enough people telling you why
you shouldn't do those things I'll tell
you go give it a try go build go build
the thing it's an amazing note to end on
don't even think about the
don'ts thank you so much I've learned so
much like I I've got you know like uh
200 lines in my text editor of notes
that I've taken listening to you I've
learned a tremendous amount from you
just watching your videos uh of course
even watching your silly Tik toks and
frankly like most of them are silly at
least the ones if you don't have been a
want like like your point of view
looking up at me while you're like
resting in my lap while I code you know
it like weird uh but that's Tik Tok
right that's Tik Tok for you but like
I've learned so much from just checking
out like uh of course like watching you
know your your react native tutorial
back in the day like was some of my
first exposure to like how react native
works and how you get things done with
that and uh I just want to you know
commend you on putting yourself out
there being so Fearless in terms of
creating these videos building this
mobile game in an area that you you know
self- profess to not have any real
domain expertise in in game development
right obviously you played a ton of
games you played League you you did
probably lots of other gamer stuff over
the years but yep to have the audacity
to go out there and like build a game on
you know mobile and and actually have
success with that that is incredibly
impressive and uh I'm very excited uh to
if there's like a demo video or
something that you'd recommend we share
to give people uh an idea of like the
core gameplay Loop or something like
that let me know we can put that in the
the show notes again lots of links in
the show notes be sure to check out some
of this cool
stuff Ben what's next for you like what
is the next six months look like the
rest of 202 I'm just grinding I'm coding
that's what you're going to see me doing
and that's what you should do code
freecodecamp.com yeah freec camp.com
Will redirect you to fre camp.org but
yes it's.org now yeah we we got both but
we we're a charity so we used other uh
but yeah like I hope you all walk away
with a ton of inspiration uh a ton of
like forward momentum that Ben has
imparted here he's he said so many
interesting things throughout this
conversation I I again I just want to
thank you for carving out time out of
your busy schedule being a Game Dev uh
getting things done being a startup
founder and uh yeah until next week
everybody happy
coding see you
