you actually can make some significant
progress with like half a million
dollars in 3 months the best hardtech
Founders do have very high Clarity of
vision around the future for hardtech
companies you have all this tactical
risk you don't know if you're going to
be able to mine asteroids but you have
no Market risk right like if you can if
you can mine asteroids it's going to be
freaking huge I think this is a call to
action for a lot of the very hardcore
Engineers that this is your chance to
build something huge and and to really
change the world literally so this is
the kind of energy we need in society
solving some of the biggest problems
that face
[Music]
Humanity welcome back to another episode
of the light cone you probably know why
combinator for a lot of our software
Investments like stripe Airbnb or
coinbase but it turns out YC has a lot
of wins not just in the electrons world
where you're slinging bits around some
of our best companies have actually been
incredible at slinging atoms so I'm
curious what's some of the advice you
give to the hardtech companies in a YC
batch like in
particular how is it different the
Milestones they need to hit during the
three months and what metrics they might
present on demoday well one of the
obvious things is they won't be able to
build a rocket let's say in time so they
won't have actual Revenue so one of the
things we tell them is they still have
to show some form of commercial
attraction it won't be necessarily
actually selling and getting Revenue in
the bank but it's a different kind of
form I think we talked a lot about
demonstrating that the customers that
ultimately they will sell to want this
and typically a form of a Loi that is
actually significant with actual values
with actually legit logos I've
definitely found Loi like letters of
intent at something where
everybody knows they're obviously not
the same as actually signing up a
customer but for the software companies
if a software a company says oh we got a
customer on an Loi for a
$1,000 Mr contract like that's not going
to be impressive but if you can get an
Loi for like a $100 million contract
that is actually quite impressive the
way that people tend to get this wrong
out there in the world is
they they're building some hearttech
thing and they're they're like oh well I
need like $20 million to build my thing
and then they look at YC and they're
like well YC invests half a million
dollar well that's not enough like I
can't do YC like how would this make
sense at all and one of the interesting
things that I've learned from working
here is that actually YC works extremely
well for hearttech companies and that
for every hearttech company no matter
how crazy the thing you're working on
whether it's a supersonic jet or
inventing fusion power there's always
like some small part that you can peel
off that is like the very initial state
age that you actually can make some
significant progress with like half a
million dollars in 3 months like always
yeah my experience and I feel this is
familiar with hardtech companies is that
they start YC and they always come in
with this the essential pitch is we need
to raise like there's no way we can make
this company work unless we raise like
$50 million and so like hard can you
tell me how to raise $50 million this
week introduce me to to some VCS who are
going to give me my $50 million I like
to Ling is always no that's your first
office hour the first off show me the
money yes basically it's like no like
you're not going to be able to raise
like $50 million off the bat you are
going to have to think like a software
company actually like how can we like do
this cheaply quickly and show something
on demo day and I just find it's always
actually at the start it's a bit of a
like fight honestly to get them to think
that way and then in the second half of
the batch is when they finally get some
Insight cuz we've just been like
pounding on them to think fast cheap
less money like and then they something
clicks and then they actually have like
a plan for the second half the batch and
the remarkable thing I found is actually
how well it works that once they make
that mental switch and they realize that
they can do something in three months
then they go do that and then they have
it's not just an idea anymore they've
got something real and they can go to
investors who maybe didn't want to fund
them before YC and now all of a sudden
like people just want to put money into
this thing because they've actually like
it's actually like going someplace the
weird inversion for hearttech I think is
uh it's not about why the why is often
there's a problem and it's sort of
obvious and then the why now even is
often kind of obvious where there's some
cost curve there's some bomb costs that
changed the build of materials got
cheaper there's some breakthrough and so
the actual question is not why now or
why it's actually why you and I think
that that's that links up to what you're
saying which is if you can show that
it's you and it might be
Lois um in hard tech and especially the
people who might spend a lot of money on
atoms they tend to be um a little bit
more uh diligent about only signing Lois
with people who are for real but as much
as the LOI I think the other piece is um
they actually need to build a plan and
demonstrate the cost actually makes
sense and have that whole financial
viability aspect of it and I think the
other thing is actually besides Loi is
proving that they can actually make it
because a lot of things like the why to
answer the Yu can you show me a kernel
of truth of the idea that you actually
can build so besides Loi the second
thing is um a technical Milestone and of
course you can't build the whole the
whole plane let's say yeah rocket or
build the giant um decarbonization
container thing but maybe do it on a
small scale maybe if you were aiming to
capture at some point I don't know 700
metric tons of carbon maybe just do it
like one or 100 seven grams yeah or
seven grams right demonstrate that you
can actually do and know the science and
can actually build it yeah I have a
trick for helping the hardtech founders
present this to investors that I stole
from one of our software companies so um
let's start with the software company it
was brex so bre's demo Day presentation
was uh a lot about showing how they were
able to move really quickly on like
getting a banking deal and sort of the
regulatory aspects of starting like a
fintech back then right and as I
remember it their presentation had like
a timeline of here's how long it takes
like the um a regular company to like
get the banking deal and go live with
like a real credit card um which charge
card um and then they were like and we
did it in like 3 months whereas like the
actual time was like 12 months so I tell
hardtech Founders to think about it as
like what's like the timeline to build
your product for like a regular company
like maybe it's 12 months and with cost
as well like would it cost like a
regular hardware
company 50 million bucks and 12 months
to get to like this proof of concept
stage and prove that you were able to do
it in like 3 months for 500k and like
that visual I find is always like
effective for answering the Yu question
actually oh okay there must be something
special about this founder if they're
able to do this like with less money and
much faster the cool thing is that if
people can build that habit during YC it
doesn't just help them raise money
during demo day but it actually creates
a habit that then changes the operating
Cadence that they work at forever and a
lot of their best hardtech companies
they still have that way of operating
which is they're constantly pushing do
things faster and cheaper than anyone
thinks is possible should we talk about
some examples of companies have gone
through YC and done this successfully
yeah and I think for each of these the
idea is we're going to talk about where
they are now and then we're going to
talk about what they were able to do
during the three months of YC yeah
that's cool yeah let's do it so I
thought it'd be fun to start with boom
boom is a company that we funded in the
winter 16 batch and they are building a
supersonic jet supersonic passenger jet
to replace the Concord because this is a
very strange area in which humans have
gone backwards in terms of technological
progress like young people watching this
might not realize but like regular
people used to regularly fly supersonic
from New York City to London in like two
hours at like mock 2 point something and
then we stopped doing that because the
Concord was discontinued and Blake the
founder of Boom he just thought that
this was unacceptable I remember when
boom was in the batch they had this
crazy idea to build a super Sonic
passenger jet which it cost literally
billions of dollars to do um and so like
the question would be how could you
possibly make any progress on this
insane idea with three months and a few
hundred, he did two things during the
batch he tried to drisk the technology
and he tried to drisk the commercial
interest and you might think that it's
inevitable that there would be
commercial interest in this cuz like
supersonic Jets of course everybody
wants a super sonic jet but the thing is
you can't sell a Super Sonic directly to
people you have to sell it to Airlines
which means this is only viable if an
airline actually wants to buy the thing
and there was legitimate question as to
whether Airlines which are capital
constrainted and risk averse would
actually want to take a bet on a crazy
new technology like this that' be very
expensive and so the way Blake deris it
during the batch is he basically spent
the batch trying to get an airline to
make an early bet on boom and at the
very end just a few days before demo day
he finally was able to get introduced to
Richard
Branson from Virgin Airlines and Richard
Branson gave him a $100 million Loi to
buy the first boom planes yeah and that
was absolutely critical to his ability
to raise money because he showed that
you know the dep pocketed customers that
would ultimately have to place a bet on
this were were excited enough to sign an
Loi like that so Jared where's boom
today so the really crazy thing is 8
years after they went through the YC
batch with their like Styrofoam scale
model they've literally built a
supersonic Jet and it just took its
first flight last week and it worked and
wow for those of us at YC whove been
like part of the Boom story since the
very beginning with like the styr foam
scale model and everything seeing them
actually build and fly a supersonic jet
was just like an unreal like
otherworldly experience that they
actually pulled it off that's it's so
cool so you can just literally think
things in your brain yeah and then
manifest them in
reality Gary do you want to talk about
one of YC's first earliest and most
successful heart ATT companies this
company called Cruz yeah of course so uh
Kyle from Cruz of course was one of the
early co-founders at Justin TV which
became twitch famously he was the guy
who figured out the GPRS and Edge modems
uh in a backpack so Justin KH could wear
the little camera on his head day Kyle
worked on the hardest technical problems
of uh twitch which is with a lot of the
video streaming and
encoding where he made it so efficient
and to this day twitch runs their own
video
servers is what made them profitable too
yeah so that was like the key thing that
he unlocked and just for a bit of a
background he's like this technical
genius basically oh definitely poath it
turns out I remember interviewing him
for YC uh the interview room was uh Sam
Alman myself and Jeff Rolston uh
incidentally the subsequent presidents
of YC which was kind of funny um and I
remember it was a very short interview
um he came in and said well I worked on
the MIT autonomous car team I really
like that and I think that it's possible
for us to make a commercial version of
this he left the room it was a great
interview and we looked at each other
and said well we have to do it cuz it's
Kyle but uh it's probably a research
project and we our laptops and went to
lunch and of course it became the
biggest fastest liquid exit of uh almost
any y combinator company at the time so
how much was it sold for uh almost a
billion dollars which was really wild
and and just how long after you
interviewed him uh I mean it was a
matter of few years few years like two
years maybe from interview to a billion
dollar X pretty amazing was even more
than any other company at YC at that
time even the software companies because
companies like Dropbox Airbnb hadn't
exit until later after the after their
acquisition right yeah and I think one
of the things that's kind of lost to the
sands of time now that you can literally
walk down any Street in San Francisco
and there are self-driving cars is that
this was not something at the time that
people thought was even commercially
viable it was sort of locked away we
knew about uh you know the Google X
project for uh self-driving cars that
would end up becoming whmo but it took
uh again like someone with an idea in
their head deciding you know what I'm
going to work on this thing you can
actually manifest things that uh frankly
are on their path to remaking every city
in the world and we're still you know in
the early Innings of that at some level
do you remember what Kyle had at the
start of
YC uh he had a a control system for an
Audi S4 which was fortuitous cuz I was
driving an Audi S4 at the time too and
um I think think to the commercial point
we actually this was uh a little bit
during the era of the kickstarter
campaign so uh that was actually what
helped him raise his seed ground was uh
getting commercial validation that you
know we didn't need to build a full
self-driving car on day one we're going
to build a highway Adas just assisted
driving uh as a retrofit for Audi S4s
okay and that was sort of the initial
thing that during YC he did um but of
course once he got those resources and
he ended up raising a series a he could
expand his vision significantly um what
did he pitch on demo day like it was
actually I believe the uh retrofit kit
um for Audi's it actually that was smart
because like if you if you had pitched
full self-driving it would might have
been hard to raise money because like
people would have been like well how are
you going to get the10 billion that you
need to actually make this real and so
the fact that he had a shorter term path
the commercialization on like a normal
amount of venture dollars was actually
like a really good was like a really
good way to to bootstrap the like the
big long-term ambitious idea and so was
the pitch that they'll take these like
assisted driving kits and sell them to
Audi gets no I think sell them to
individual Audi owners yeah so I
remember putting down my credit card uh
for one of these things I I didn't end
up getting one but if you visit the
Mountain View Campus of Y combinator
there is actually one of the original
retrofit cars oh interesting and so I
think that that really illustrates
exactly uh you know commercial
validation with uh you know basically
fantastic why now and then they proved
to the world like you know the Yu and
two different types of commercial
validation interesting like boom was
like we're going to convince a huge
Airline and it probably seemed quite
scary right up until demo day on whether
they were going to get anything or not
and then Cruz is like we're not going to
sell to Ali we're just going to go
directly to IND idual who want this
which was probably like much more more
like a bite-sized chunk approach that's
what it takes to sort of create some
basically create a new industry from
scratch another way hardtech companies
are viable is they're going after a
known commercial space but doing it a
lot cheaper than the current
incumbents and for example launching
satellites to space cost like billions
of dollars because there's like these
giant satellites that take
multi years to assemble tell us a bit
about um astranis and they they had a
technical Innovation as well yeah a lot
of people don't realize but YC has
actually funded some of the most
successful space companies in the world
and one of the first ones we did with
this was this company called astris and
astonis builds telecommunication
satellites and their core Insight was
that you could make satellites a lot
cheaper if instead of making a few big
satellites that did everything you made
a lot of small satellites that just did
a few things it's kind of like when
commodity servers replaced main frames
it's basically the same concept as for
satellites and they were in the in the
winter 16 batch the same batch as boom
actually their goal for the batch was to
build a fully functioning satellite that
they could put into space in three
months which is like to hardest point
about like typical timelines like the
typical timeline to build even a demo
satellite is years
and they were like we're going to build
it in 3 months and then we're going to
launch it into space because by that
time SpaceX was offering space flights
for small caros and so you could
actually book basically a one-way ticket
on a SpaceX rocket for like not that
much money for like a small cubat and so
their demo Day photo you can actually
see the satellite that they built during
the three months of YC that's Ryan
holding it
up they actually launched it after the
batch they actually did yeah the cool
thing about Astron
is that telecommunication satellites are
actually a really good business like
it's actually like super profitable and
so from pretty early on they were able
to generate a like real revenue from
customers and actually make money
putting satellites into space and they
now actually have several satellites in
space over our heads and um a really
cool like chapter of the story is that
they they actually are in like the
Astron offic is just across the street
from the YC office and it's not just
like some headquarters place where like
they they like designed the plans for
the satellites they actually manufacture
the satellites across the street from
our office and we can actually see it
from our set right here it's right there
um and so I love to take the founders in
the current batch on a tour of the
astrona office across the street and
show them that you can go from your demo
day cubat to like a satellite Factory in
a few years that's a the cool thing
about space is um you know partially
because of SpaceX and a lot because of
the massive increase in launch
capability there's just this ecosystem
now uh kind of like astris is a great
example of it that now that you can get
to space there are all these things that
you can actually do in space that are
very valuable and there's a really crazy
one that you funded Gary when you were
at initialized called Astro Forge I I
love to hear about that one Astro Forge
is really interesting because they have
a pretty scary huge ambition which is
literally to be able to fly um a
satellite to an asteroid uh some of
these asteroids have something like
15,000 times more concentrated precious
metals like Platinum than on the earth
uh and then they're actually using
robotics to um refine The Ore directly
on the asteroid uh and then take that
asteroid and fly it back and the
funniest thing about it is you don't
actually have to land it you could just
fly the asteroids straight into the
desert and then mine out of the crater
and you know potentially mine hundreds
of millions of dollars or billions of
dollars worth of precious metals so are
they going to try to bring the whole
asteroid back to Earth or just like a
little chunk of the asteroid just the
precious metal itself just the precious
metal okay they're early in their Voyage
but I just really love extremely
ambitious people I always talk about
especially right now because we're
prepping people for demo day um the best
pitch is relatively small simple ideas
when you put them together and you zoom
out like that's actually a really big
story that's totally achievable and so I
feel like asttr Forge you know is uh one
of those examples as an investor like
how do you think about the risk of
investing in a company like that there a
software company it's sort of you know
right can you get customers what's your
sales plan going to be but mining
precious metals on an asteroid in space
and bringing it back safely how do you
think about the risk I think some of it
is all they have to do in the shorter
term is actually fly to an asteroid and
come
back um and ideally it would be great if
they could prove that they had picked
they were able to pick an asteroid that
actually had precious metals in high
concentration uh and there's a weird
interesting um regulatory uh aspect to
it too in that um I believe the United
States has actually uh
spoke into this saying if you land on an
asteroid you actually confer ownership
rights to it so there are many ways to
monetize and um I think that that speaks
to what you were saying earlier we want
sort of achievable tranches that are not
outrageous you don't have to do
self-driving cars on day one you don't
have to actually fly back a billion
dollars worth of platinum on day one you
have to show that there is a clear path
to build the tech to get there so
relativity space was also in the winter
16 batch amazingly we actually had3
billion aerospace companies in the same
batch isn't that wild yeah um wow winter
16 that was a special time and I I I
think the the reason is what Gary was
saying which is like this Confluence of
factors like 2016 turned out to be an
amazing time to be starting an aerospace
company um and relativity space they
make 3D printed Rockets and the founders
were super young they were like 23 is
years old when they started it basically
their demo day goal was to prove that
they could 3D print a rocket engine um
not one that you could actually take
into space that's impossible but just
like a scale model to prove that the
thing was like feasible technically and
I remember Jordan him walking around
demod day carrying this like rocket
engine and it was small but it was a
real rocket engine had all the injectors
it had the right nozzle design like it
was actually a thing that you could like
fire up and would produce thrust it is
such a wacky idea who would have thought
that it is possible to 3D print a rocket
to space because there's so much of the
tolerance with with heat dissipation and
energy and to get everything at the
right manufacturing very like super high
precision and the cool thing is they
actually did it in March of last year
they actually launched a fullscale
rocket that was almost entirely 3D
printed it's the first time anyone's
ever done that wow that's so cool so
talked a bunch about aerospace companies
uh another area we've invested a bunch
in is climate um and energy companies di
I think you worked with hard Aerospace
right oh no that was gustaff that worked
with it ah okay so he worked with uh
hard Aerospace which is a winter 19
batch company what they're trying to
build are fully electrical
planes and that sounds doable but it has
not been done part of it is that the
batteries in Planes are too heavy and
don't have enough range and what they
figure out is that a lot of regional
flights are The Sweet Spot because
actually today with regular planes fuel
based planes uh Regional flights
actually losing money and they're
subsidized by the government and what
they figure out is they're going after
the market and during the batch they
signed a bunch of uh Lo with a lot of
airlines because this is actually a
burning problem for Airlines they're
actually losing money in all these
flights and the other interesting thing
on the why for them they're actually
located in Sweden and Sweden and Nordic
countries are one of the most
Progressive countries in the world
there's a goal for them to fully
Electrify all flights by regulation by
2040 which is like a huge thing talking
to the why now and making the pain even
bigger what they achieved is actually to
this uh it's been four years later they
actually built a version of it they even
have a test pilot wow that's a big plane
yeah it's a I think it's a 19 seater wow
their first their first plane is going
to be a 19 seater so they actually have
a built models for it already that's
that's pretty cool to see right and the
other cool thing about Hardware
companies as they progress you need a
lot of funding to get this going and VC
funding is not going to be enough you
have to get customers to pay you for it
so they actually got purchase orders
from United Air Canada and other
Regional Airlines locally as well as uh
government grants Remora is a very
interesting company it is another of
these wacky ideas that is trying to
retrofit semi-trucks to be carbon
neutral to sequester all the carbon
while they're moving which sounds like
wild so how do you do that with a truck
because uh truck emissions in the US is
about 3% of the total emissions the US
emits close to Six Million ton per year
and they could capture a make a huge
dent so the way they went about it was
first principal Paul was very interested
in working in climate and he studied and
looked at all the emissions in the US
and the top one was
Transportation then he found this thesis
from Christina who is the world expert
and published this PhD in 2019 on mobile
carbon capture for heavy duty Vehicles
it was like the only thesis in the world
and he basically got in touch with her
and convinced her to be his co-founder
wow and it is a wacky that there's
nothing built like this in the world you
see now where they are they actually
built it you see these giant tanks
that's actually capturing right now 80%
of um of what gets exhausted in a in a
truck now cound is this other company
sort of like Remora so cound is
basically retrofitting cargo ships to
reduce CO2 emissions and they're the
only solution today that's possible and
the other thing to why now there's
actually regulations that came up that
they're forcing cargo ships to meet
carbon goals as well the cool thing
about them during the batch I work with
them in Winter
22 is um they were able to close a bunch
of Lois with ship owners which is really
hard industry to break in and now after
the batch they actually just had their
first pilot here as you can see they did
their first this is them on an actual
cargo ship yeah just this year an actual
containership well last year actually W
so this is the kind of energy we need in
society you know if you are if you're a
top you know 150 IQ or above person who
wins math olympiads and things like that
instead of going and optimizing ads at
Facebook why don't you go work on
something like this yeah solving some of
the biggest problems at face Humanity
which is uh pretty important for people
watching to know um to whom much is
given much is expected so uh Jared we
talked a lot about Hardware type of
companies what about um chemistry so I
see is funed this this company called
solugen that I worked with in summer 16
and I think solugen is one of the
coolest companies I've ever had the
experience of working with and what they
do is they make industrial chemicals
they started with the smallest possible
scale that you could imagine making
these chemicals at and then they just
scaled up in like successively larger
and larger scales until they ended up
where they are now with this like
massive chemicals plant in Houston and I
remember when they applied to YC what
they literally had was a beaker like
this big and they had made like one
Beaker full of hydrogen
peroxide just to prove that they could
do it just to prove that the thing
worked at all and then their demo day
goal was basically to go from like a
tabletop scale to a garage scale and
they literally took over their garage I
think it was in like Mountain View and
they built this like garage scale
production platform where they were able
to make like gallons of hydrogen
peroxide and one of the coolest things
about solugen is unlike a lot of the
earlier chemicals companies that were
Venture funded that tried to raise a
huge amounts of money a huge amount of
money before selling anything the Cogen
Founders started selling their product
during the YC batch so when they were
making like a few gallons of hydrogen
peroxide they would literally go out and
they would sell it and so they were
Revenue generating literally from day
one and they never sold the product at a
loss they always figured out some way to
sell like small quantities where they
were at least not losing money on the
actual thing that they were making and
as a result of that they've actually
been really Capital efficient for such
for a company like this and today they
have a really healthy Revenue generating
business that like makes sense as if you
don't look at it as some like sci-fi
startup it's just like it's a thing that
actually makes a lot of money that's
awesome I actually have a couple of
companies in this current YC batch that
I wanted to talk about because build off
some of the lessons that we we've just
been discussing about all these
companies right so the first one is K
scale labs and so K scale the vision is
to build consumer humanoid robots very
cool and Optimus for the rest of us yeah
basically and you can like all kinds of
ideas around this like maybe in the
future we'll all have a robot that's
like cleaning our house or it's I want
one does all of your chores for you
right what's interesting about it is it
follows the pattern we discussed earlier
of where um Ben the founder came in and
said I have to raise like a huge amount
of money and then there's a competitor
in the space figure which has just
closed this huge um round of funding
because the founder is um one of like he
started successful companies before and
he's probably just like a natural
fundraiser and very well connected right
and the first few office hours were all
about you cannot like you have to think
like a software company like how can we
build this company and prove stuff out
without raising like a $100 million
series a it took a while to figure out
what that would actually be and
eventually like about halfway through
the batch we found it and the answer is
like what K scale really wants to do
what they're really excited about is
building a new Foundation model for
perception in robots and this is what
the founder Ben had worked on at Tesla
actually so he in Optimus yeah Optimus
he put the first perception model into
the Optimus at Tesla um but in order to
build the best model you also need it
running in real Hardware right like you
need actual robots out there that you're
Gathering data back from to improve the
model and so the idea he came up with is
they're going to build the first 10 of
these human robots themselves so it's
pretty low scale um and they'll run
their um models in those but they're
going to open source the Hardware
Designs and what they found is that
there's a lot of excitement amongst the
engineering community to build their own
humanoid robots people just need the
design and so you open source the
designs you build a community of people
who already want like the howto kit on
building a humanoid robot and all of
those robots will run K scale's
Foundation model on them and this is
sort of like the plan for how do you get
to like see it's like crowdsourcing the
costs to build them that's a very clever
hack yeah I think so right and it is a
work in progress and we'll see how it
plays out but what we do have really
strong early signs of and people want
this um like
Hacker News is a pretty common thing
like people talk about hey I really wish
I knew had to build like my own
prototype my own humanoid robot and soon
they'll be able to if you look at um
early interviews with Steve Jobs and
Steve wnc they talk about how they never
wanted to start a company they just were
selling breadboards and plans and the
apple one was a bag of Chip hobbyist is
actually very similar to this yeah and
explicitly Steve has gone on the record
saying like we never wanted to start a
company we were just sick of building
these things for our friends so we
thought we needed to start a company and
so it sounds like Homebrew Computer Club
again but for robotics this is exactly
that it is exactly the same pattern and
Diana canest it's the same sort of
founder profile like somebody who is
just very enthusiastic about this
technology and what it can do for the
world and like I feel like the the help
we've been able to provide is how do you
funnel that excitement into like a a
path that shows commercial viability
Within 3 months another example would be
astrome mechanica it's another company's
in current in the current YC batch and
so they've create actual real Tech
breakthrough they' built an electric
engine that is Efficient Electric jet
engine that's efficient at every speed
which is um incredibly hard to build
right because if you think of uh current
jet engines for every speed it's a
totally different set of optimizations
like you have different amounts of air
coming in and out you have like
different compressors um you need to
build you just you can you make a
fundamental trade-off to be efficient at
any specific fee so it's an electric jet
so is the idea that it's going to power
fully electric
Jets yes yes and no like the actual like
the thing that's exciting about astrome
mechanica is if you have an engine
that's efficient at every speed um you
can use it to power different types of
aircraft so you could have like um a
subsonic airra craft that's just much
faster um than a traditional jet engine
aircraft or you could also use it to
power potentially like a supersonic
aircraft all with the same engine right
so like the actual plan the big picture
vision for astrome mechanica is to
replace Boeing um and to be like the
next Boeing with like the engine as the
core of it and seems like we might need
a next Boeing so timing is good yeah
it's time it's it's definitely timely
with with the news right um but they
they did a lot of simulations right and
software to be able to really prove that
they can run this engine in multiple
speed which is like a huge technical
accomplishment I asked Ian the founder
on that like on the how have they been
able to think like software company just
move very quickly on the technical front
and he said one of his key insights was
that you want to innovate on as few
things as possible in the hardware to
you want to try and buy as much
off-the-shelf Hardware as possible and
just pick the one or two things that you
actually really want to innovate on and
like put all of your energy into those
but have as much like offthe shelf
components as you possibly can and then
on the commercial side what they've done
is like they you have this big Vision
right like we want to compete with
Boeing we've got this like brand new
engine that could be used for like a
thousand different potential things but
instead of trying to build for example a
commercial aircraft right now they're
focusing on one very specific use case
which is just launching payloads into
orbit so if you have this engine that's
efficient at every speed you can launch
things into space um far more
efficiently and cheap and so they're
going to focus on just that they've
already signed up Lois um uh for quite a
lot of money and use that to like fund
their future plans right which is sort
of it's like the Tesla strategy where
it's like you start with the Roadster
and you use that to fund the development
of Like the Model S and use that to fund
the model the development of the model
three I think the cool thing about a lot
of the founders we highlighted I think
they've been building a lot the tech on
these products in their head for a long
time I think the thing that stands out
to me a lot of times is reading a lot of
these applications for the founders
they're actually super well thought out
and a lot of the science and engineering
it is exactly as it plays out as the
company year one year two year three
even for astranis just reading their
application it is what they have built
right now they do the six panel design
and it is what they have and I was
thinking seabound the design of doing
carbon capture with calcium looping it
is what they've done at a large scale
and that's the cool thing is I think a
lot of the risk here is actually more
how do you take that first step and I
think you said something cool was that
secretly a lot of Hardware companies
actually think like software companies
yeah I do think that the best hardtech
Founders do have um very high Clarity of
vision around the future and I think
where we help them a lot is on the sort
of the the compressing the timelines and
like think about things in a more
commercial like how can you prove that
people will pay for this but the actual
like the they live in the future already
somewhat like they already know where
they want to get to and I think that is
probably different to many software
companies where you can have a fuzzier
vision of the future and iterate and
figure it out as you go along whereas
with hard tech companies like you kind
of you often have the vision of the
future in your head and it's just
proving that you can get there before
you run out of money I think that's the
thing is like can you build the road is
like what is the first step the second
step and I think the first one is also
very daunting because you have this
super clear image of what the future
looks like with how your company changes
the world because a lot of these
companies we talked
about when they succeed they're going to
be huge and they're probably going to be
a lot bigger than our software companies
too they're going after massive
Industries like energy one of the top
expenditures in economic GDP Index right
yep as straight forward I me we talking
about Astro Forge G that the thought R
through my mind is like as investors and
to some extent as Founders you're
thinking of the expected value of your
company right like you know there's like
there's a very small chance of it
succeeding but like hopefully the
outcome of it succeed is quite big but
when you think of a company like Astro
Forge like okay like the odds of like
being able to successfully like bring
back minded precious metal from space
seems pretty low but if you do that you
own the whole asteroid you like that
company could be absolutely gig gantic
so the expected value ends up actually
being like really high like that could
be one of the most valuable companies on
the planet if it actually works and then
zooming out like that's sort of um the
job of every hardtech founder period is
that uh in aggregate the amount of risk
might be this much and then we're saying
that day one you don't have to take on
this much risk you need to take on this
much to show that you could take on this
much to show that you could take on this
much and so it really is about how do
you break down the problem which is
itself uh great Engineers are very good
at decomposing problems to begin with
yeah if you are skilled like if you have
the skills to build like real things um
to really go out at a startup you want
to think as big as you possibly can like
don't make the tea making robot build
the thing that goes into space and
brings back precious metals right like
that then you can actually have a shot
at the expected value works out and
building one of the most valuable
companies and it makes the risk worth it
I think interesting thing that I've
noticed looking at the YC portfolio data
is that even though there's this
reputation that hardtech companies are
really risky when we look at it in terms
of our success rates funding these
companies it's actually about the
same our success rate is actually about
the same and I think for space companies
it's actually higher than other segments
of our portfolio like space companies is
like one of the highest
performing segments of YC
and I think the reason
is that it's just two different kinds of
risk for hard tech companies you have
all this technical risk you don't know
if you're going to be able to mine
asteroids but you have no Market risk
right like if you can if you can mine
asteroids it's going to be freaking huge
the asteroids are there they've got like
Platinum the only question is whether
you can get it it's like a machine that
turns lead into gold exactly yes that
will be valuable our software companies
they may have no techical risk like of
course you can build a website but they
have all this Market risk nobody knows
if you want if people want this website
at all and there's often a lot more
competition and so it turns out when you
like add those two things or like when
you compare those two things it actually
turns out to be kind of a wash because
is these two variables on our saying or
make something that people want the want
is already clear the want is already
clear yeah and all of the r is stacked
up on the make can you make it and I
think this is a call to action for a lot
of the very hardcore engineers that this
is your chance to build something huge
and to really change the world literally
because these are atoms and huge
industries that you can go after solving
climate creating a lot more efficient
chemicals going after being
interplanetary species into this whole
vision of space it's like so many cool
things that are also very inspiring I
think the other cool thing about
Founders like this when you talk to them
they generally have this level of
excitement is they really believe in it
and they're very good
storytellers to really
convince not just like investors at the
beginning but later on like they have to
have a very hardcore technical experts
like Blake right he didn't come from
Blake from boom didn't come from
Aerospace but he has this level of
enthusiasm and Clarity that he was able
to convince really legit experts to join
him and the ability to recruit tell the
story
is a huge superpower that Founders here
need to have I think Blake is actually a
really powerful example of this because
um boom is actually Blake's second
company and he started both kinds of
companies so his second company is Boom
the supersonic jet company and his first
company was basically a Groupon clone it
was this like social buying site when
like Groupon clones and social buying
sites were were all the rage so it's
like a quintessential typical stupy kind
of startup and so he's had both
experiences and he came and he spoke at
a YC dinner and he sort of contrasted
what it was like to run both a super
typical startup and a super out there
insanely ambitious hard tech company and
I'll never forget what he said at the
dinner is really stuck with me what he
said is you might think that running
boom was much harder than running the
social buying site and actually it
wasn't um cuz like with the social
buying site
it was really easy to like get the thing
live like you can build a version of
like a like a V1 of that in like a week
and you can launch it so it's really
easy to like build a thing and launch
but then what now you need to hire great
employees and convince them to join and
like nobody wants no like great it's
really hard to convince great Engineers
to work at like the seventh social
buying site um is really hard to
convince investors or users or anyone to
care about your site because it's just
like not that interesting and so
everything after launching is actually
like really hard and with boom is the
opposite like it's super hard to
actually build a suic jet but if you
just tell people that that's what you
want to try doing like the world will
like rally to the cause and like
investors and employees and partners and
the press and like everybody wants to
talk about it and everybody wants to
help you and for all those examples that
we highlighted that is the case like for
seabound likewise like the two Founders
are like young women out of college and
they were able to really assemble a team
of Hardcore industrial engineers to
really pull it off because what they're
going after is a very Mission oriented
critical is like really solving the
climate crisis and going after the
shipping industry it's like no other
companies that are solving climate are
trying to touch that industry because
it's so hard to sell to but they've been
able to do it and not just the employees
are taking a chance on them but also the
shipping owners these owners are signing
the pilots the Lois for them because
they really take this bet on the
founders I zooming out in general like
another Tailwind for the whole hearttech
um uh startups it's just like the cost
of prototyping things is coming down
over time there's a good chance that I
feel like with AI being able to run
simulations and just abstracting away
some of like maybe even like the
middleware involved in building robots
for example all trending in favor of it
becoming easier to do things like with
less money and in like faster time
scales yeah the platforms really seem to
build on themselves which is what
actually like space if you think about
space before that's probably what's
happening there right I think if you
zoom back like five six seven years we
wouldn't have predicted that space would
be the area that the um big hard tech
like winds would be in and like you can
speculate that what's going on is like
SpaceX set the scene for hey you can you
can build a company in the space there's
a bunch of engineering Talent that works
there for a bit and leaves as is the
case with like our portfolio companies
um that Talent starts companies Builds
on just like everything that's come
before like there's probably another
vertical out there in hardtech um that's
going to be like the next space it just
possibly robotics probably robotics
robotics is like would be my guess and
Nvidia at its market cap with virtually
unlimited access to Capital is probably
one of the biggest accelerants to
compute and then as a result like that
sort of robotic future yeah what a time
to be alive this is a a piece of advice
Paul Graham would give um way back in YC
where it's sort of when you're
fundraising some people are natural
fundraisers and some people aren't and
if you're not sure which bucket you're
in you're not a natural fundraiser right
so I got of feel like one of these
things is there is clearly an like Elon
Musk path to building one of these huge
companies which is being a fantastic
fundraiser who is able to attract like
you know hundreds of millions of dollars
and go out and build Tesla and SpaceX
but like there is if you're not Elon
mask there is also a path to doing that
it just requires what we've been talking
about here it's like thinking like a
software company and I actually think a
consequence of that is like the people
you want to surround yourself with may
actually be software people and like
people or at least like investors who
will push you in the right directions
because I think it's another thing I see
with Founders is hey like the advice
they want to here is yes of course you
need to raise like $50 million and I can
teach you how to do that like the advice
we give them is no you have to go
through the pain of figuring out how to
do it with like $3 million not $50
million right and I think that can be
that that's a right Playbook if you're
not Elon um which is most people and
then at the same time that teaches a
discipline that sets people up to
actually run businesses that are real
businesses and not money raising
exercise is yep well we're almost out of
time but I hope that all of the examples
we talked about today give you the great
Builder out there the sense that you
don't have to be a multi-time
billionaire you don't have to have all
these exits already you don't have to be
an Elon Musk you just have to be smart
and you can surround yourself with
really smart people who will help you
figure out the rest so with that we'll
see you next
[Music]
time
[Music]
n
