the dirty Secret in Enterprise software
is that customers can't just buy
software and start using it they have to
write a whole bunch of custom code in
order to connect the products they buy
to all of the systems they already use
like their data warehouse and their HR
database I call this dark matter because
a ton of time and energy goes into
writing and maintaining this code but
because it's always company specific
it's usually not visible from the
outside and there's so much of it out
there that large software vendors like
or and Nets suite and Salesforce each
support multi-billion dollar ecosystems
of consultants and independent software
vendors whose job it is to customize
these products on behalf of their
clients today large language models have
the potential to generate custom company
specific glue for The Uncommon use cases
automatically building and maintaining
the code needed to keep everything
connected if you're interested in
working on this I hope you'll apply to
YC
