today many software tools use physics to
solve problems such as weather
prediction fluid Dynamic
computations designing Rockets or
designing drugs to predict molecule
interaction and these are very expensive
to compute with physics because you have
to solve these giant mathematical models
and it turns out that AI models are
General functional approximators that
can solve these problems and do
predictions in a matter of minutes or
even seconds using a lot smaller
computers as opposed to supercomputers
or taking days and weeks to do
predictions with physic based models
we're interested in working with
Founders that want to work on this space
to open up new UN addressable Market
when you can do predictions in seconds
rather than days
